Getting to know Echo Getting started with Echo Things to Try
Microphone  Where to put your Echo News, Weather, & Traffic Sports
Action  Echo works best when placed in a  Customize these features in the Echo App. Alexa, did DC United win?
1. Plug in your Echo Microphone central location, at least eight inches  Alexa, what’s my Flash Briefing? Alexa, what is the score of Cubs game?
Plug the included power adapter  off button from any walls. You can put Echo  Alexa, play NPR. Alexa, when do the Seattle Seahawks 
into Echo and then into a power  Light ring in a variety of places—on a kitchen  Alexa, what’s the weather? play next? 
outlet. A blue light ring will begin  counter, the end table in your living  Alexa, will it rain tomorrow?
to spin around the top. In about a  Volume  room, or a bedroom nightstand. Alexa, how is my commute looking? Music
minute, the light ring will change to  Alexa, play my Coldplay station from 
orange and Echo will greet you. Talking to Echo Alarms & Timers Pandora.
“Alexa” is the word you say to  Alexa, set the alarm for 7 a.m. Alexa, like this song.
get Echo’s attention. Say this  Alexa, set the timer for 45 minutes. Alexa, play Ho Hey by The Lumineers.
“wake word” and then tell Echo  Alexa, snooze. Alexa, play a Miranda Lambert station.
Alexa, play music by Bruno Mars.
what you want to do. You can 
Power adapter
change your wake word to  Calendar
Power LED “Amazon” from the Echo App. Link your calendar on the Echo App. Discover & Buy Music
Alexa, what’s on my calendar tomorrow? Alexa, what song is this?
Echo App Alexa, when is my next meeting? Alexa, what was Bob Dylan’s first album?
Alexa, buy this song.
Plug in Echo Microphone off button The app helps you get more out of 
Press this button to turn off the  your Echo, and is available for Fire  Lists: To-do & Shopping
Shows, Podcasts, & Radio
microphones. The light ring will  OS, Android, iOS, and web. You  Alexa, add milk to my shopping list.
turn red. Press it again to turn the  can use the app to manage your  Alexa, I need to make a birthday cake. Alexa, play the program Radiolab. 
2. Download the Echo App microphones back on.  lists, music, settings, and see an  Alexa, what’s on my to-do list? Alexa, play ESPN Radio.
Alexa, play Z100 on iHeartRadio.
overview of all your requests.
Download the free app to your 
phone or tablet. Start the download  Light ring Shop Amazon
Audible Audiobooks
process in your mobile browser at: The color of the light ring  Things to Try Order items from Amazon.com
Alexa, play the book The Hunger Games. 
www.amazon.com/echosetup indicates what Echo is doing.  The Things to Try card included in  Alexa, re-order laundry detergent. Alexa, read my audiobook.
When the light ring is blue, Echo is  this guide provides examples of  Alexa, buy more toothpaste.
Opening the app will immediately  ready for your requests. things you can ask Echo. Keep this 
start the setup process. During  card to help you get started. Questions & Answers Connected Home
setup, you will connect Echo to the  Use Hue and WeMo devices with Echo. To 
Volume ring Alexa, tell me a joke.
Internet, so you will need your  get started, go to Settings in the Echo App.
Turn the dial clockwise to increase  Give us your feedback Alexa, how tall is the Empire State Building? 
Wi-Fi password. Alexa, turn on the coffee maker.
the volume. The light ring fills in as  Echo will improve over time,  Alexa, how many ounces are in a cup? Alexa, dim Hue lights to 30%.
the volume increases. giving you access to new features  Alexa, what’s the definition of serendipity?
Alexa, when is Mother’s Day?
and ways to get things done. We 
Alexa, Wikipedia: Abraham Lincoln.  Use These Anytime
Action button want to hear from you about your 
Alexa, what is the time in Moscow? Alexa, pair my Bluetooth.
You can use this button to turn off  experiences. Use the Echo App to 
Alexa, stop.
the alarm and timer. You can also  send us feedback or e-mail 
use this button to wake up Echo.  echo-feedback@amazon.com. Prime Music Alexa, volume five. (1–10)
Alexa, cancel.
Play music from the Prime catalog for free.
Alexa, repeat.
Alexa, play some Prime Music.
Alexa, play some relaxing music. 
Alexa, play my Jimi Hendrix station. For more examples, go to Help in 
Alexa, add this to my library.  the Echo App.