August Smart Lock Pro
Installation Guide Inside the Box
August Smart Lock Pro Mounting Plate
3 Adapters Adhesive Strip
What you need
Phillips Screwdriver
! 
Before starting, we recommend confirming your deadbolt at august.com/compatibility
1 1. Prepare your existing deadbolt
Use the supplied adhesive strip to hold the keyed side of the lock in place.
2. Remove your existing thumbturn
Unscrew and remove the screws from your existing deadbolt thumbturn. If there is 
an additional back plate, remove that as well. Be sure to unlock your deadbolt 
before removing the thumbturn entirely.
2 3. Prepare the mounting plate
The included mounting plate has two adjustable screw-holes that can be 
repositioned as needed. Remove the screws from the thumbturn and insert them 
into the front of the mounting plate.
4. Attach the mounting plate
Tighten the screws by hand until the mounting plate is secured against the door.
3 5. Choose your adapter
Select your adapter from the Compatibility Chart above.
If your lock brand is not in the chart, slide each adapter onto the tailpiece to find the 
right one. The correct adapter will have the small nub pointing up.
NOTE: The adapters can be placed in the mounting plate backwards. So if the shape 
is correct, but it seems backwards, try flipping the adapter around.
6. Attach the correct adapter
Place the correct adapter onto the tail piece with the small nub pointing up.
4 7. Open the wing latches
Pull out both side wing latches to prepare for mounting.
8. Attach the August Smart Lock Pro
Slide the August Smart Lock Pro over the tailpiece and attach it to the mounting 
plate. Make sure the back of the lock is flush with the door. To secure the August 
Smart Lock Pro, clamp down both side wing latches to the mounting plate 
completely.
5 9. Remove the faceplate
Press down on the August logo located at the bottom of the face plate. Grab the 
top of the faceplate and remove it.
10. Remove the battery tab
While holding the batteries in place, remove the plastic battery isolation tab. Make 
sure that the battery is properly seated in its compartment.
6 11. Replace the faceplate
Place the faceplate back onto the August Smart Lock Pro, with the August logo at 
the bottom.
12. Install DoorSense™
DoorSense™ enables your lock to know when the door is open and closed. For 
instructions on installing DoorSense™, please visit the link below:
http://support.august.com/customer/portal/articles/2875699
7 13. Use the August Home app to complete setup
Download and install the August Home app. Select "Get Started" from the home 
screen, or, if already logged in to the app, select "Set Up a Lock" from the main menu.
http://august.com/app
Help
Call 844-AUGUST1 (284-8781)
or visit: august.com/support for answers.
12.17-R1 8