USER GUIDE 
Wemo® Wi-Fi Smart Light Switch, F7C030 
light indicators 
 
The Wemo® Wi-Fi Smart Light Switch, F7C030 has several indicator lights that indicate the 
device's state.  Below is a list of the light behaviors and the corresponding activity they represent. 
  
Indicator 
Icon  Indicator  Activity 
Light 
Power  ON  The Wemo Light Switch is ON. 
indicator  OFF  The Wemo Light Switch is OFF. 
 
Night time 
ON  The Wemo Light Switch is ON. 
backlight 
 
The Wemo Light Switch is starting up, 
Green and 
connecting or undergoing firmware 
Wi-Fi  blinking 
update. 
indicator 
Green and solid  The Wemo Light Switch has 
 
  then turns OFF  established a stable connection. 
  
Orange and  The Wemo Light Switch is not 
blinking  connected to the Wi-Fi. 
 
NOTE:  The Wi-Fi indicator light is only visible during setup. 
 
 
Meet the Wemo® Wi-Fi Smart Light Switch, 
F7C030 
 
The Wemo® Wi-Fi Smart Light Switch, F7C030 is an alternative for your simple wall light switch that 
allows  you  to  view  the  status  and  control  the  light  anywhere  in  your  home. 
 
Key Features 
  The Wemo Light Switch connects to your Wi-Fi, allowing your device to connect to it 
through the Wemo App.  It can connect seamlessly over Wi-Fi, 3G or 4G.    You can easily set the turn ON or OFF times manually or enter your city name and have 
lights to turn ON at sunrise then OFF at sunset. 
  The Wemo Light Switch comes with an elegant clip-on face plate that hides all screws 
giving it a modern look and it has a back light to make it easy to find at night. 
  Compatible with any smartphone or tablet running Android™ 4.4 or higher or iOS 9 or 
higher. 
   
 
 
HardwareFeatures 
  
 
  
A.  Wi-Fi Indicator - This indicator changes alternatively in color between green and orange and is 
only visible during setup. 
B.  Power Indicator - This indicator lights up if the Wemo Light Switch is ON. 
C.  Night Light - This indicator lights up only when the room is dark that makes the Wemo Light 
Switch easy to find. 
D.  Reset Button - This is also known as the Wi-Fi Reset button that is dedicated for resetting the Wi-
Fi settings of your Wemo Light Switch.  This is located right below the Night Light beside the Power 
Restart button. 
E.  Restart Button - This is also known as the Power Restart button that is dedicated to power restart 
your Wemo Light Switch without losing any Wi-Fi settings.  This is located right below the Night Light 
beside the Wi-Fi Reset button.  F.  Clip-on Face Plate - This hides all screws, giving a modern look to the Wemo Light Switch. 
NOTE:  The MAC address of the Wemo Light Switch can be found underneath if you remove the face 
plate. 
G.  Easy ON / OFF - Push anywhere to toggle ON and OFF. 
 
Resetting or restarting your Wemo® Wi-Fi Smart Light Switch, F7C030 is easy with its 
dedicated Reset and Restart buttons.  
  
Restart if:  
  The Wemo Light Switch is not detected by the Wemo App. 
  The Wemo Light Switch is blinking orange after a firmware update. 
  The Wemo Light Switch has become unresponsive to both the app and manual controls. 
Reset if:  
  You recently changed your wireless router or your Wi-Fi name or password. 
  You want to erase any stored settings. 
   
 
  
QUICK TIP:  On the Wemo Light Switch faceplate, the Reset button is also known as the Wi-Fi 
Reset button, while the Restart button as the Power Restart button. 
  
How to restart your Wemo Light Switch 
   
To restart the Wemo Light Switch, press the Restart button for 1 second and then release.  The Wi-
Fi Indicator light will begin to blink green to show it is restarting.    
QUICK TIP:  If the Wemo Light Switch is not responding to the Restart button, turn OFF the power 
of the Wemo Light Switch by turning the circuit breaker OFF and then turning it back ON. 
  
How to reset your Wemo Light Switch 
  
Resetting using the Wemo App 
Resetting using the Reset button 
  
Resetting using the Wemo App 
   
Step 1:  Launch the   App. 
  
Step 2:  Tap  .   
   
 
   
Step 3:  Tap WeMo Light Switch.     
 
  
Step 4:  Tap Reset Options.   
   
Step 5:  Tap Reset Name, Rules & Data.   
  
Resetting using the Reset button 
  
IMPORTANT:  This process will delete all previous settings done in the Wemo App and reset your 
Wemo Light Switch to factory default settings.  You will need to set up the Wemo Light Switch with 
the Wemo App again. 
   
Step 1:  Press the Restart button for 1 second and then release.  The Wi-Fi Indicator 
light will begin to blink green to show it is restarting.  
   
QUICK TIP:  If the Wemo Light Switch is not responding to the Restart button, turn OFF 
the power of the Wemo Light Switch by turning the circuit breaker OFF and then turning 
back ON. 
  
Step 2:  Immediately press and hold the Reset button for 5 seconds.  The Wemo Light 
Switch Wi-Fi icon will blink orange rapidly, indicating a successful restore. 
 
The Wemo Light Switch will take about 90 seconds to perform the restore.  When ready, the Wi-Fi 
Indicator light will begin to alternate between green and orange to show it is ready to be set up.  For 
setup instructions, click here.   
Installation  of  the  Wemo  Light  Switch  to  the  electrical  line
 
 
If you’re familiar and comfortable with basic electrical work, it only takes a few minutes to set up your Wemo 
Light Switch.  Otherwise, do not try and do it yourself, please call a professional electrician. 
 
Electrical Installation Requirements 
  A Neutral wire (requires all three AC electrical connections at the wall switch) 
  A single pole light switch (not compatible with lights controlled by more than one switch) 
  
 
  
  The light switch box must be 2 inches deep 
  
 
 
IMPORTANT:  The Wemo Light Switch is not designed to work with metal faceplates because they 
interfere with the Wi-Fi signal.  It is recommended to use the light switch for residential and dry indoor 
locations only.   
Once these electrical requirements are complete, proceed with the electrical installation instructions below. 
  
Step 1:  Shut OFF the power at the circuit breaker for the switch you are replacing.  You 
may need to shut OFF more than one circuit breaker/switch to make sure the switch you're 
working on is powered OFF. 
 
IMPORTANT:  USE A NON-CONTACT VOLTAGE DETECTOR OR FLIP YOUR 
LIGHT SWITCH A FEW TIMES TO MAKE SURE THAT THE POWER IS OFF.  
 
Step 2:  Unscrew and disconnect the wires from the old switch using a screw driver. 
  
Step 3:  Identify the wires on your Wemo Light Switch. 
  Switch (Live/Load) wires - On this light switch, the Switch wires are the two 
black wires.  Every light switch will have both of these wires.  But they could be 
either red or black in color. 
  Neutral wire - The Wemo Light Switch requires this wire, but isn't always present 
in your electrical wiring at home.  If present, the neutral wire is normally found 
within the wall box with a wire nut on top of it. 
  Ground wire - If present, it should be plugged into the top of the light switch 
here.  It's normally green or copper in color.  Don't worry if you can't find the 
ground wire, Wemo Light Switch doesn't require one. 
  
WARNING!  THE FOLLOWING WIRING SCENARIOS MAY BE DANGEROUS 
OR ILLEGAL. 
    
 
NOTE:  For more details, see Wiring your Wemo® Wi-Fi Smart Light Switch, F7C030 
  
Step 4:  Install the Wemo Light Switch.  Connect each of the two black wires from the 
Wemo Light Switch to the available Switch (Live/Load) wires.  In case you found more 
than one wire, just place them into the wire nut. 
 
NOTE:  The wire nut is the cap-like object connecting the wires. 
  
 
  
Step 5:  If you have a Ground wire (optional), disconnect it from the old switch and 
connect it to the green wire on the Wemo Light Switch. 
      
  
Step 6:  Unscrew the wire nut that is holding together the existing Neutral wires.  Connect 
the white wire from the Wemo Light Switch to the outlet's exposed Neutral 
wires.  Securely screw them together inside the wire nut. 
 
IMPORTANT:  Wrap electrical tape around the wire nuts to make sure the copper 
conductor is fully concealed. 
  
 
  
Step 7:  Screw in the Wemo Light Switch and attach the faceplate.  Push all the wires back 
into the wall box and try to allow as much space for the switch as possible.  Align the 
two screw terminals and screw in the Wemo Light Switch.  Attach the faceplate. 
 
NOTE:  Belkin discourages using metal faceplates as they may interfere with your Wi-Fi  signal. 
  
 
  
Step 8:  Turn the power back ON at your circuit breaker.   
  
QUICK TIP:  To verify that the Wemo Light Switch has been successfully installed to 
your electrical line, manually switch it ON. 
 
You have now installed the Wemo Light Switch to your electrical line. 
  
IMPORTANT:  If you have electrical concerns, please call a professional electrician and do not try 
to do it by yourself. 
  
 
 
 Wemo App and Wemo Light Switch Setup 
 
Before setting up the Wemo Light Switch with the Wemo App, make sure you have the following: 
   
  A Wemo Light Switch that is already installed to your electrical line and is functioning. 
  Active Wi-Fi and internet connection. 
  The Wi-Fi name and password of your router.  To know how to get them, click here. 
  An iOS 9.0 device or higher; or an Android™ 4.4 device or higher. 
 
Once these requirements are complete, proceed with the instructions below. 
  
Step 1:  Download and install the Wemo App on your mobile device from the 
App Store® if you are using an iOS device or from Google Play™ if you are using an 
Android device. 
  Step 2:  Enable the Wi-Fi feature of your mobile device and make sure it is 
connected to your Wi-Fi.  This is required to ensure no error is encountered upon 
installation. 
 
NOTE:  If you have a dual-band router, Wemo can only connect to your 2.4 GHz 
band. 
  
 
  
Step 3:  Look for the Wi-Fi Name of the Wemo Light Switch.  The default name 
for your Wemo Light Switch is WeMo.Light.xxx. 
 
NOTE:  If you have multiple Wemo devices, connect to the one with the same 
Wemo ID at the back of the device.  The Wemo ID is the word WeMo, followed by 
Wemo model, and then three alphanumeric characters.  Once connected to the 
Wi-Fi, look for the Wi-Fi Name of the Wemo Light Switch and tap it to connect 
your device. 
    
 
QUICK TIP:  If the Wemo Light Switch does not show up in the Wi-Fi search, you 
can try setting it up with your mobile device near the Wemo Light 
Switch.  Alternatively, you can press the Reset button on the faceplate of the light 
switch.  For step-by-step reset instructions, click here.  
 
Step 4:  Once connected to the Wemo Light Switch, launch the Wemo 
App.  Then, on the Let's get started! screen, tap NEXT. 
    
 
   
Step 5:  Enter your email address then tap NEXT. 
  
 
    
 
Step 6:  Select your Wi-Fi name and enter your password. 
    
 
    
 
Wait while the Wemo App connects to your Wi-Fi. 
 
NOTE:  Observe the light indicators of your Wemo Light Switch.  Click here to 
know about light behaviors. 
    
  
QUICK TIP:  If the Wemo encounters difficulty connecting to the Wi-Fi, try 
refreshing your mobile device’s Wi-Fi and try connecting again.  If that doesn't 
work, click here for more troubleshooting tips. 
    
  
The Remote Access Enabled message will then pop up.  By default, this feature 
is enabled. 
    
  
Step 7:  When the Wemo Light Switch setup is complete, the Wemo App will look 
for devices.  If you have multiple Wemo devices, the Wemo App will display all 
these.  You should see the Wemo Light Switch on the list. 
 
NOTE:  If your Wemo device is not detected by the Wemo App, click here for 
troubleshooting instructions. 
    
 
 
QUICK TIP:  You can customize the Name, Device Picture, and Reset Options of 
your   Wemo Light Switch by tapping the pencil icon and then selecting the Wemo Light 
Switch. 
    
  
  
You should now have successfully installed the Wemo Light Switch with the Wemo App.  With the 
Wemo App, you can create different rules for your Wemo Light Switch.  To learn how, click here. 
 
 
 