Smart Garage  Hub
Smart Garage  Hub
™
™
ManMuaalnual
For iOS devices
 
MYQ-G0301 • MYQ-G0301C
MYQ-G0301-D • MYQ-G0301LA
by Before You Start
To reduce the risk of SEVERE INJURY to persons:
•   DO NOT enable the MyQ® Smart Garage™ Hub if operating either one-piece or swinging doors. To be enabled 
ONLY on a sectional door.
WARNING: This product can expose you to chemicals including lead, which are known to the State of California 
to cause cancer or birth defects or other reproductive harm. For more information go to www.P65Warnings.ca.gov
Read instructions thoroughly BEFORE beginning.
If using this product with residential door openers, this product must be used only with door openers 
manufactured after 1993 that utilize photoelectric sensors. The photoelectric sensors are always located 
on or near the bottom of the door track.
Before you start, you MUST have…
  •  A router with 2.4GHz Wi-Fi® frequency
  •  Router configured with 802.11 B/G/N
  •  Router within 50 ft. of MyQ Smart Garage Hub
  •  Mobile phone connected to your home Wi-Fi network
  •  Home Wi-Fi network password 
  •  Latest version of MyQ App 
     NOTE: If using iOS 10, see  
Alternative Installation Method on page 16.
  •  Compatible garage door opener (see Compatible Garage Door Openers on page 20)
  •  Locate program or learn button on the garage door opener   
  See Appendix on page 21 for a more detailed list of program or learn button locations.
LED
Program Button
- 2 - Before You Start
What’s in the Box
MyQ SmWari-tF Gi Haurabg e Hub
Door Sensor
BBluluee  LLEEDD MoDdoeol Mr SYeQn-Gso03r02
GGrreeeenn  LLEEDD
Red
LED
YYeellllooww  LLEEDD
Light
Test
Test Button
Button
PoPwoewre rA Addaapptteerr
FaFsatsetneniningg S Sttrriippss  ffoorr  
DoDooor rS Seennssoorr
MMouonuntitningg  bbrraacckkeett
HHaarrddwwaarer efo fro r  
DDoooorr  SSeennsosorr 
(5(5//3322”"  xx  33//44" ”s csrcerwesw)s)
Hardware for  
Hardware for Wi-Fi Hub
MyQ Smart Garage Hub  
(5/32" x 1-1/2" screws)
(5/32” x 1-1/2” screws) WWaarrnniinngg L Labaeblel 
( (nnoott s shhoowwn)n)
Tools Needed: Drill, 5/32" Drill Bit, Screwdriver, Ladder
- 3 - Wireless Setup and Installation
NOTE: If using iOS 10, see Alternative Installation Method on page 16.
Step 1: Check your Wi-Fi signal
Make sure your mobile phone is connected to your Wi-Fi network. Hold the mobile phone near where you plan to 
install the MyQ Smart Garage Hub.
MyQ Smart Garage Hub 
(mounting area)
mounting area
If you see:
Wi-Fi signal is strong. You’re all set! Proceed to next step.
 
Wi-Fi signal is weak. The MyQ Smart Garage Hub may not connect to your Wi-Fi network. If it doesn’t 
connect, try one of the options below. 
No Wi-Fi signal. Try one of the following options:
  •  Move your router closer to the garage to minimize interference from walls and other objects.
  •  Buy a Wi-Fi range extender.
 
To watch a video on How to test your Wi-Fi Signal Strength before setting up your MyQ® product,  
go to youtu.be/_Ow1wVF-7AU 
- 4 - Wireless Setup and Installation
Step 2: Install door sensor
  1.  Remove the pull tab from the door sensor to activate the battery.
  2.  Test the door sensor by pushing the test button and confirming the LED on the door sensor blinks.
    If the LED on the door sensor does not blink, see Troubleshooting on page 16.
  3.  Install the door sensor on the top panel of the garage door using the fastening strips or provided hardware.
Door Sensor
“TOP” MUST 
 always face UP
LED
Test 
Fastening   
Button
Strips 
OR
OR
Screws
Press CR2450 Battery
IMPORTANT: Door sensor MUST be installed to read “myQ” lettering right-side up.
Step 3: Download the MyQ App
If you already have the MyQ App, verify you have the latest version. To confirm you have the  
latest version of the app, go to the App StoreSM and search for the Chamberlain MyQ App.  
If you see Update, tap Update. 
- 5 - Wireless Setup and Installation
If you have already registered a MyQ account, skip this step and login.
Step 4:  Create and Register your MyQ Account
  1.  Open the MyQ App and tap Sign Up.
  2.   Enter first name, last name, valid email address, and password 
(twice), country, and zip code.
     NOTES:
    • Check email address for errors.
    • Use a valid email address you can access.
    •  If the email address you are attempting to use is already in the 
MyQ system, you will receive an error message. If necessary, 
tap Forgot Password to retrieve the password for that email 
and login. For more information, see Troubleshooting on page 
16.
  3.  Tap Submit (top right-hand corner). An email will be sent to the          
    email address you provided.
  5.   Open the email from Chamberlain support and tap the link to 
complete your registration. The MyQ App will open, verifying 
registration of email address was successful. NOTE: If you didn’t 
receive an email, check the Junk or Spam folder.
  6.  Tap OK.
  7.  Enter your email address and password and tap Login.
Congratulations! Registration of your account is now complete.
- 6 - Wireless Setup and Installation
Step 5: Power up the MyQ Smart Garage Hub
Find a convenient location and plug in the MyQ Smart 
Garage Hub. Wait for the blue LED to blink. BBluluee L ELEDD b lbinliknsks
If blue LED is not blinking:
Unplug and plug back in.
MyQ Smart Garage Hub
If the blue LED still does not blink, reset to factory 
default:
  1.   Press and hold the Settings button  until the 
blue LED blinks (about 10 seconds) then release. 
  2.   Press and hold Settings button  again until the 
MyQ Smart Garage Hub beeps. 
IMPORTANT NOTE: Resetting the MyQ Smart Garage 
Hub to factory default erases the Wi-Fi settings, erases 
door sensors, and removes the MyQ Smart Garage Hub 
from the currently paired MyQ account.
Settings Button
Step 6: Login to MyQ App
Enter the email and password you used to register your account and 
tap Login.
 TIP: Select Remember Me if you want the MyQ App to remember 
your email address and password. You can change the security 
settings within the MyQ App by tapping the menu bar in top-left 
corner and then your name on bottom-left to access settings.
- 7 - Wireless Setup and Installation
Step 7: Connect the Smart Garage Hub to your Wi-Fi Network
In the MyQ App:
+
  1.  Tap Get Started or tap “ ”.   2.  Tap Add New.
  3.   Enter your MyQ serial number (found on the back of    4.  Tap Join to connect to the network.
the MyQ Smart Garage Hub) and tap Next.      NOTE: If you don’t see this screen, see Alternative 
Installation Method on page 16.
- 8 - Wireless Setup and Installation
Step 7: Connect the Smart Garage Hub to your Wi-Fi Network continued 
  5.   Select your home Wi-Fi network from the list.     6.   Enter your home Wi-Fi network password and tap 
Connect. 
  7.   Wait for the solid green LED on your MyQ Smart    8.   Enter a name for your MyQ Smart Garage Hub and 
Garage Hub. This can take up to 2 minutes. tap Next. 
     Result: LED is solid green. NOTE: If the LED is not 
solid green, see Troubleshooting on page 16.
- 9 - Wireless Setup and Installation
Step 8: Add New Device
Now that your MyQ Smart Garage Hub is connected to your home Wi-Fi network, the next steps will guide you through 
the process of pairing your garage door opener to your MyQ Smart Garage hub.
TIP: A device is any MyQ accessory that can be paired with your MyQ Smart Garage hub for monitoring and control.  This 
includes MyQ Lighting accessories and an add-on door sensor that expands your MyQ functionality to a second garage door. 
The following steps are to add a garage door opener.
  1.  Select Garage Door Opener.   2.  Confirm your door sensor is mounted and tap Next.
  3.   Locate test button on door sensor and tap Next.    4.   Press and release the test button on the door sensor. 
The MyQ Smart Garage Hub will beep and the light 
will flash. 
MyQ Smart Garage Hub
Light
Door Sensor
Red
LED
Test 
Button
- 10 - Wireless Setup and Installation
Step 8: Add New Device continued
   NOTE: You will need the brand and model located on the motor head of your garage door opener.
   The following steps will activate your garage door opener. Make sure your garage door is clear.
  5.   In the MyQ App, tap Select Brand/Model of garage door opener. Tap and select your garage door opener from 
drop down list. If prompted, tap Program Button and select the color from the drop down list.
  6.  Read warning then tap Continue.
- 11 - Wireless Setup and Installation
Step 8: Add New Device continued
     See Appendix on page 21 for location of garage door opener 
program or learn buttons.
8.  In MyQ App, tap I have pressed the 
  7.   On your garage door opener - push and release the program   program button.
or learn button.  
NOTE: Release the button quickly for best results. 
LED
Program Button
  Result: Door should move.
   If the door moves go to next step. If the door doesn’t move, the MyQ App will prompt you to try again. If you’re still 
unsuccessful, see Troubleshooting on page 17.
  9.   When the garage door opener is paired, in the MyQ    10.   Success! Continue to the next page for instructions 
App enter a name for the device (door) and tap Next.  on mounting your hub. 
- 12 - Wireless Setup and Installation
Step 9: Mount the MyQ Smart Garage Hub
  •   Install the MyQ Smart Garage Hub on the ceiling 4-6 feet from the garage door opener, and within 4 feet 
from an AC power outlet.  
  1.  Use the MyQ Smart Garage Hub bracket as a template to drill 5/32" pilot holes.  
  2.  Attach the bracket.  
  3.  Slide the MyQ Smart Garage Hub onto the bracket.
  •   Plug it in and confirm the hub’s green LED turns on solid.  
If the hub’s LED does not turn solid green within a few minutes, see Troubleshooting on page 16.
    The MyQ Smart Garage Hub light MUST be visible if you’re standing in the doorway of the garage.
MyQ Smart 
Garage Hub
Light
TIP: Wrap excess power 
adapter cable around the 
Door Control mounting bracket.
Warning Label
Step 10: Apply Warning Label 
  •  Attach the warning label to the wall next to the door control.
- 13 - Operation
ALWAYS keep garage door in sight and away from people and objects until completely closed. NO ONE SHOULD 
CROSS THE PATH OF THE MOVING DOOR.
To open and close your garage door from the MyQ App, 
tap the garage door icon from the Devices screen. This 
screen also displays the length of time since your garage 
door opened or closed.
To change the Devices screen view, tap the toggle icon 
next to the +.
When closing your garage door from the MyQ App, your 
MyQ Smart Garage Hub will beep and the MyQ Smart 
Garage Hub light will flash as a safety alert. Caution 
should be taken around the moving door.
NOTES:
•   The MyQ Smart Garage Hub can be associated to one 
MyQ account only. 
•   You can connect up to 2 door sensors and up to 16 
MyQ accessories (with a second door sensor purchased 
separately
Menu 
Button
Getting Started
Your new MyQ Smart Garage Hub was designed to deliver peace of mind by allowing 
you to always know the status of your garage door and by providing control of your 
garage door from anywhere. 
The following MyQ functionality allows you to get the most out of your new system:
 
ALERTS
Alerts can send you a push notification and/or email when a MyQ device changes  
state (garage door opens, remote light turns on, etc.)
SCHEDULES
Schedules program your device to activate at specified days and times and can  
also be programmed to send push notifications and email to your phone.
PARTNERS
MyQ integrates with a number of other technologies to link with your  
existing Smart Home products.  For the most up to date list of MyQ partners,  
please visit www.chamberlain.com/myqpartners 
See all available features by tapping the Menu button. 
- 14 - Maintenance
Test
 TIP: Test your door sensor every 6 months or if the MyQ  
system is not working as expected.
To prevent possible SERIOUS INJURY or DEATH:
To test for a low battery: Press and release the test button  •   NEVER allow small children near batteries.
on the door sensor, The LED on the door sensor should  •   If battery is swallowed, immediately notify doctor.
blink the MyQ Smart Garage Hub should beep. Wait 5-10  To reduce risk of fire, explosion or chemical burn:
•   Replace ONLY with 3V CR2450 coin batteries.
seconds, then repeat this test 5 more times (wait 5-10 
•   Do NOT recharge, disassemble, heat above 212°F 
seconds between each test). 
(100°C) or incinerate.
 If the LED doesn’t blink or the MyQ Smart Garage Hub 
doesn’t beep with each press, replace the battery in the  
door sensor. Use a 3V Lithium battery size CR2450.
Battery
Dispose of batteries properly. Replace ONLY with 3V CR2450 coin batteries.
Screws
Press
CR2450 Battery
- 15 - Install Option 1 - Preferred Method
CheckyourWi-Fi®signal.
MakesureyourmobiledeviceisconnectedtoyourWi-Finetwork.HoldyourmobiledevicenearwhereyouplantoinstalltheSmart
GarageHub.
(mounting area)
Ifyousee:
Wi-Fisignalisstrong.You'reallset!Installyourproduct.
Wi-Fisignalisweak.TheSmartGarageHubwilllikelyconnecttoyourWi-Finetwork.Ifnot,tryoneoftheoptions
below.
NoWi-Fisignal.Tryoneofthefollowing:
TroubleshooMtoivnegyourrouterclosertothegaragetominimizeinterferencefromwallsandotherobjects
l
BuyaWi-Firangeextender
l
 
TToow waatctchha vvidideeoos, ogon thooywo tuotu in.bseta/_llO thwe1 wMVyFQ-7 SAmUa.rt Garage Hub, go to videos.
When I press the test button in the door sensor, why doesn’t the red LED blink? 
  1.  Make sure you remove the pull tab from the door sensor. 
  2.   Debris may be present on the battery. Open the door sensor by pressing the button on the bottom and pulling the 
front cover off. 
  3.   Slide the battery out to make sure that the pull tab didn’t break off under the battery or that there is no residue on 
the battery. After you confirm put the battery back in. 
  4.   Close the door sensor and press the test button, if the LED still doesn’t come on replace the battery. If the LED 
blinks, install the door sensor to the top section of your garage door. The battery is a 3V Lithium battery size 
CR2450. Door sensor installation is on page 5.
When I attempt to create a MyQ account, why do I get the error message “That username already exists. 
Check username or use another username. (201)”? 
Your email address was previously used to create a MyQ account. Click Forgot Password on the login screen of the MyQ 
-5-
App and a temporary password will be emailed to that email address. Once you log in you are ready to go through the 
Wireless Setup and Installation on page 7.
When I attempt to connect my MyQ Smart Garage Hub to my Wi-Fi network, why don’t I get a solid 
green LED light? 
When attempting to connect to your Wi-Fi network the LED lights on your MyQ Smart Garage Hub will go through a 
sequence of LED light flashes before it goes solid green. The LED illumination pattern indicates the type of issue. Check 
what the LED lights are doing and follow the steps indicated. 
  Goes back to flashing blue
       • Verify your Wi-Fi password.
  Flashing blue and green
    • Power cycle your router.
    • Check Wi-Fi signal where the MyQ Smart Garage Hub is located (page 4).
    • Check router settings (page 2).
    • Clear the Wi-Fi settings on the MyQ Smart Garage Hub and reconnect to your Wi-Fi network. 
To clear the Wi-Fi settings: Press and hold the Settings button on the MyQ Smart Garage Hub until the blue LED blinks 
(about 10 seconds) then release. Then reconnect to Wi-Fi using the Alternative Installation Method below. 
Alternative Installation Method
  1.  Make sure the blue LED on the MyQ Smart Garage Hub is blinking. 
  2.  On your mobile phone, go to Settings > Wi-Fi and select the network with the “MyQ-nnn” prefix.
  3.   Launch the web browser on your mobile device. Enter setup.myqdevice.com into the browser address bar. Follow 
the on-screen prompts to connect the MyQ Smart Garage Hub to your Wi-Fi network.
  4.   Download the MyQ App, set up an account, and add the MyQ serial number (located on the cover of the manual) to 
your account.
  Flashing green:
    • Check your router ports: TCP/UDP port 8883 and TCP/UDP port 53 required.
       
- 16 - Troubleshooting
When attempting to pair my garage door opener to the MyQ Smart Garage Hub, why doesn’t the door 
move? 
When you are not able to pair your garage door opener and MyQ Smart Garage Hub there are a couple things to check 
for. You need to confirm that you are adding a compatible garage door opener and that the door sensor is working 
properly. 
Once you have confirmed that your garage door opener is compatible (see Appendix for compatible garage door 
openers), test your door sensor. 
Door sensor test: Press the test button on the door sensor. The MyQ Smart Garage Hub should beep and the red LED on 
the door sensor should blink. If it doesn’t, replace the battery. If it does, follow the steps to test for low battery.  
To test for a low battery: Press and release the test button on the door sensor, the MyQ Smart Garage Hub should beep. 
Wait 5-10 seconds, then repeat five more times. (Press, beep and wait…repeat). The MyQ Smart Garage Hub should 
beep with each press. (If you don’t wait 5 seconds you may not hear a beep.) If you don’t hear a beep with each press, 
replace the battery. The battery is a 3V Lithium battery size CR2450.
Error messages and how to resolve 
When I attempt to log into my account, I get the error The user is locked out. (207), how do I unlock my account? 
An account gets locked out when you have entered your password incorrectly too many times. Follow these steps to 
resolve. 
  1.  Tap Forgot Password
  2.   Enter the email address you used to create the MyQ account. You will receive an email containing a new generic 
password. NOTE: If you didn’t receive an email, check the Junk or Spam filter.
  3.  Login to your MyQ account with your Account Email and the new generic password.
    NOTE: The new generic password remains valid until you change it.
  4.   Tap the Menu in top-left corner, select your name in bottom-left corner, and change your password to a specific 
and confidential password.
When I attempt to add my serial number to my account, I get the error That device is on another user’s account. Unable 
to add (310), how do I resolve this issue? 
This error means that the MyQ Smart Garage Hub has been added to another MyQ account. To resolve this issue, you 
need to perform a factory default on the MyQ Smart Garage Hub (see below). 
Factory Default 
Setting the MyQ Smart Garage Hub back to factory default erases the Wi-Fi settings, erases door sensors, and removes 
the MyQ Smart Garage Hub from the MyQ account.
  1.   Press and hold the Settings button   until the blue LED blinks (about 10 seconds) then release. 
  2.   Press and hold Settings button   again until the MyQ Smart Garage Hub beeps. The MyQ Smart Garage Hub is set 
to factory default.
- 17 - Troubleshooting
 
Alternative Installation Method
  1.  Make sure the LED on the MyQ Smart Garage Hub is blinking       blue. 
  2.  On your mobile phone, go to Settings > Wi-Fi and select the network with the “MyQ-nnn” prefix.
  3.   Launch the web browser on your mobile device. Enter setup.myqdevice.com into the browser address bar. Follow 
the on-screen prompts to connect the MyQ Smart Garage Hub to your Wi-Fi network.
  4.   Download the MyQ App, set up an account and add the MyQ serial number (located on the cover of the manual) to 
your account.
Settings Button
- 18 - Accessories
PILCEV-P1
MyQ Remote Lamp Control
Monitor and control this plug-in lamp switch 
with the MyQ App.
WSLCEV-P1
MyQ Interior/Exterior Light Switch
Monitor and control this wall light switch with 
the MyQ App.
MYQ-G0302: G821LMB-SENSOR
MyQ Smart Garage Hub Add-on Door Sensor 
Monitor and control this door sensor with 
the MyQ App. The MyQ Smart Garage Hub 
supports a second sensor that can be installed 
on a second garage
NOT COMPATIBLE
MYQ-G0202 or 041D7924
Door Sensor
- 19 - Appendix
Compatible Garage Door Openers
Unless specified, the MyQ Smart Garage Hub is compatible with the following brands of garage door openers 
manufactured after 1993 that utilize safety sensors. 
  •  Chamberlain, LiftMaster, Craftsman and other Chamberlain manufactured garage door openers
  •  Wayne Dalton 372.5 MHz
  •  Linear
  •  Stanley
  •  Genie/Overhead Door manufactured 1993-2015. Not compatible to openers manufactured after 2016. MyQ    
    Smart Garage Hubs with a date code of 04/18 or later are compatible with all Genie and overhead door openers  
    manufactured since 1996. 
- 20 - Appendix
Locate the Program or Learn Button
Chamberlain Products
- 21 - Appendix
Locate the Program or Learn Button
LiftMaster Products
Yellow  
Program Button
Purple  
Program Button
Orange 
Program Button
Green  
Program Button
Overhead Door Products
Learn Code 
Button
- 22 - Appendix
Locate the Program or Learn Button
Genie Products
For compatible Genie garage door openers, see Compatible Garage Door Openers on page 20.
Learn Code 
Button
Program Set Button
- 23 - Appendix
Locate the Program or Learn Button
Linear Products
Program 
Button
Program 
Button
Wayne Dalton Products
Program SW 
Button
- 24 - Appendix
Locate the Program or Learn Button
Stanley Products
Program Button
- 25 - Warranty
Need Help?
Go to: www.chamberlain.com/MyQSupport
One Year Limited Warranty
The Chamberlain Group, Inc. warrants to the first consumer purchaser of this product that it is free from defect in 
materials and/or workmanship for a period of 1 year from the date of purchase.
Software Agreement
Use of this product and the software embedded within the product is subject to the copyright notices, terms, and 
conditions available at: www.mychamberlain.com/agreement
NOTICE: This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC rules and Industry Canada’s license-exempt RSSs. Operation is subject to the following two 
conditions: (1) this device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference received, including interference that 
may cause undesired operation. Any changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party responsible for compliance could void the user’s 
authority to operate the equipment.
This device must be installed to ensure a minimum 20 cm (8 in.) distance is maintained between users/bystanders and device.
This device has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital device, pursuant to part 15 of the FCC rules and Industry Canada 
ICES standard. These limits are designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a residential installation. This equipment 
generates, uses and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed and used in accordance with the instructions, may cause harmful 
interference to radio communications. However, there is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular installation. If this equipment does 
cause harmful interference to radio or television reception, which can be determined by turning the equipment off and on, the user is encouraged to try 
to correct the interference by one or more of the following measures: 
  •  Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna.
  •  Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver.
  •  Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the receiver is connected.
  •  Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician for help.
Chamberlain, the Chamberlain logo, LiftMaster, MyQ® and the MyQ® logo are registered trademarks of The Chamberlain Group, Inc. 
Patents and patents pending. Apple is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark 
of Apple, Inc. Wi-Fi® is a registered trademark of Wi-Fi Alliance. Genie is a trademark of Overhead Door Corporation. Overhead Door 
is a trademark of Overhead Door Corporation. Linear is a trademark of Linear Corporation. Master Mechanic is a trademark of TruServ. 
Sears is a trademark of Sears & Roebuck. Stanley is a trademark of The Stanley Works. Wayne Dalton is a trademark of Wayne Dalton 
Corporation. Do It is a trademark of Do It Best Corporation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 
  ©2018 The Chamberlain Group, Inc. 
114A5161B  All Rights Reserved. 