portal  0  Log  Into 
Go  Back 
User  Guide 
This  article  applies  to:  Portal+,  Portal,  Portal  Mini,  Portal  TV,  Portal  (Gen  1) 
Portal,  Portal  Mini  and  Portal+ 
Setup 
How  do |  set  up  my  Portal? 
Before  setting  up  your  Portal,  make  sure  to  review  our  health  and  safety  guidelines.  To  set 
up  your  Portal,  you'll  need  a  Facebook  or  WhatsApp  account.  If  you're  having  trouble  using 
your  Portal’s  touchscreen  during  setup,  learn  more  about  turning  off  accessibility  options. portal  0     Log  Into  | 
radiators. 
e  Do  not  place  Portal  where  it  may  be  tipped  over  easily. 
2.  Plug  your  Portal  in  with  the  included  power  cord. 
e  Plug  the  included  power  cord  into  Portal  first,  then  into  an  appropriate  outlet. 
e  Make  sure  the  included  power  cord  is  fully  plugged  into  your  Portal 
before  plugging  it  into  an  appropriate  outlet. 
e  Your  Portal  works  when  connected  to  a  rated  AC  power  source  with  100V  to 
240V  AC  at  50Hz  to  6OHz.  Please  review  our  health  and  safety  guidelines  for 
more  information. 
e  Arrange  any  cables  and  cords  so  that  people  and  pets  are  not  likely  to  trip  over 
or  accidentally  pull  on  them  as  they  move  around  or  walk  near  the  Portal. 
Select your  language  and  connect to Wi-Fi: 
Once  your  Portal  is  plugged  in,  follow  the  on-screen  instructions  to  begin  setup. 
1.  Select  your  language,  then  tap  Next. 
2.  Connect  to  Wi-Fi. 
1.  Select  your  Wi-Fi  network. 
2.  Enter  your  Wi-Fi  password  and  tap  Join. 
3.  Tap  Next. 
4.  Tap  Continue.  Your  Portal  may  need  to  download  the  latest  software  in  order 
to  complete  setup.  Once  the  download  is  complete,  you  may  be  asked  to 
restart  your  Portal. 
Give your  Portal  a  name  and  log  in  with  Facebook or WhatsApp: 
Follow  the  on-screen  instructions  to  continue  setup. portal  0  Log  Into 
can  change  your  Portal's  Wi-Fi  network  at  any  time. 
To  change your  Portal's Wi-Fi  network: 
1.  From  Home  on  your  Portal,  tap  Settings. 
2.  Tap  Wi-Fi. 
3.  Select  the  network  you'd  like  to  connect  to,  enter  your  Wi-Fi  password,  and  tap  Join. 
Learn  more  about  what  you  can  do  if  your  Portal  can’t  find  your  Wi-Fi  router. 
How  do  |  turn  the  camera  and  microphone  off  on  my  Portal? 
To  mute or  unmute the camera  and  microphone  using  the touchscreen  during  a  call: 
1.  Tap  the  screen  to  expose  the  call  menu. 
2.  Tap  ©  or  ©  to  mute  or  unmute  your  camera  or  microphone. 
  
  
  
  
  
     
  
 
  
  
     
   portal  0  Log  Into 
You  can  also  use  the  included  camera  cover  to  block  your  Portal  camera  when  you're  not 
using  the  camera. 
How  do!  put  my  Portal  in  sleep  mode? 
You  can  put  your  Portal  in  “sleep”  mode,  which  turns  the  screen  off,  but  allows  your  Portal 
to  be  woken  up  by  touch,  voice  commands,  motion  detection  or  incoming  calls.  Your 
Portal  will  go  to  sleep  automatically  after  15  minutes  without  use,  or  you  can  make  your 
Portal  sleep  manually. 
To  make your  Portal  sleep: 
1.  Swipe  up  from  the  bottom  of  your  Portal  screen  to  view  the  Quick  Controls. 
2.  Tap (') 
Calling 
Accounts   
portal  0     Log  Into    
  
Plug  in  your  Portal  TV: 
1.  Plug  in  the  HDMI  cable  and  power  adapter,  then  connect  the  power  adapter  to  a 
power  source.  Your  Portal  TV  will  turn  on  automatically. 
2.  Plug  the  HDMI  cable  into  an  input  on  your  TV.  For  best  results  use  HDMI  1. 
3.  Turn  on  your  TV  and  select  the  input. 
Find  the  right  place for your  Portal  TV: 
Your  Portal  TV  may  be  mounted  on  top  of  your  TV  or  placed  on a  flat  surface  underneath. 
Avoid  placing  your  Portal  TV  directly  on  top  of  a  speaker,  too  close  to  a  speaker,  directly 
on  top  of  a  sound  bar  or  too  close  to  a  sound  bar. 
Mount your  Portal  TV  on  top  of your  TV: 
1.  Open  the  large  clip. 
2.  Open  the  small  clip. 
3.  Rest  the  front  clip  against  the  front  of  your  TV  frame.  At  the  same  time,  press  the portal  0     Log  Into  | 
ewww we  ws  re gg 
2.  Connect  to  Wi-Fi  by  selecting  your  Wi-Fi  network  and  entering  your  password.  Select 
Continue  to  agree  to  download  and  install  the  latest  Portal  TV  software.  This  can  take 
about  15  minutes  depending  on  your  connection. 
3.  You  may  need  to  select  Restart  Portal  to  continue.  If  your  Portal  TV  doesn’t 
automatically  restart,  you  may  need  to  unplug  and  plug  it  back  in. 
Language  selection  will  affect  “Hey  Portal”  and  other  functionality.  Currently,  “Hey  Portal” 
is  only  available  in  English  (US/Canada),  and  will  be  disabled  if  you  select  any  language 
other  than  English  (US/Canada)  as  your  preferred  language  on  your  Portal.  You  can  still 
make  calls  on  your  Portal  using  the  touch  screen,  and  we're  hard  at  work  to  add  “Hey 
Portal”  functionality  in  additional  languages. 
Give your  Portal  TV a  name and  log  in  with  Facebook or WhatsApp. 
Follow  the  on-screen  instructions  to  continue  the  setup  process. 
1.  Give  your  Portal  TV  a  name.  Select  an  option  from  the  menu  or  select  Custom...  to 
create  a  Custom  Name. 
2.  Connect  your  Facebook  or  WhatsApp  account: 
1.  Select  Facebook  or  WhatsApp,  then  select  Continue  and  follow  the  on-screen 
instructions. 
To  finish  setting  up  your  Portal  TV,  follow  the  remaining  on-screen  instructions  to 
complete  setup.  You  can  do  things  like  add  favorite  contacts,  see  how  Smart  Camera 
works,  display  your  Facebook  photos,  connect  Alexa  to  your  Portal  TV  and  learn  more 
about  using  Portal  TV. 
"Hey  Portal"  and  other  functions  are  affected  by  language  selection.  Some  features, 
including  “Hey  Portal,”  Facebook  Watch,  Facebook  Gaming,  Facebook  Live  and   
portal  0  |  Log  Into 
  
aw  wet_ttww wa  weounm™  Wwe  =  BE  Ew wwaewWTwTwwse:  st  se pose np omemnuay*? 
 .  From  Home,  select  Settings. 
=
 .  Select  General. 
N
.  Select  Wi-Fi  and  make  sure  Wi-Fi  is  enabled. 
W
 .  Select  Other  Network...  and  enter  your  Wi-Fi  network  name. 
k
.  Select  your  Wi-Fi  network's  security  method  from  the  dropdown,  enter  your  Wi-Fi 
o
password  and  select  Join. 
How  do |!  turn  the  camera  and  microphone  off  on  my  Portal 
TV? 
To turn  the  camera  and  microphone  off on  Portal  TV: 
Press  the  camera  and  microphones  on/off  button  on  the  side  of  your  device.  Once  the 
button  has  been  pressed,  a  red  light  on  your  device  indicates  that  the  camera  and 
oy 
microphones  are  off.  Keep  in  mind  that  pressing  a)  on  your  Portal  TV  remote  will 
continue  to  work,  even  when  your  microphone  is  turned  off. 
To turn  the  camera  and  microphones  back on: 
Press  the  camera  and  microphones  on/off  button  on  the  side  of  your  device. 
To  block the  camera  lens  on  Portal  TV: 
Use  the  integrated  camera  cover. 
Maw  An  Il  nit  mv  Dartal  TV  in  elaan  mada? portal  0  Log  Into 
Calling 
Accounts 
Was  this  article  helpful? 
Yes  No 
Last  updated  February  28,  2020 
Copy  Link 
Related  Articles portal  0  Log  Into 
Messenger  connections  and  WhatsApp  contacts. 
Looking  for  something  else? 
Search  Help  Center 
Email  Us portal  0     Log  Into  | 
  
United  States (English) 
  
  
Home  Privacy  Policy 
Products  Cookies 
Terms  of  Use 
Features 
;  ;  Legal 
Private  by  Design 
Terms  of  Sale 
Support 
Ad  Choices 
  
©2020  Facebook,  Inc.  or its affiliates.  All  rights  reserved. 
Screen  images simulated.  User experience  may vary. 
*$50 off  Portal,  Portal  Mini  and  Portal+.  Buy two  Portal  TV devices and  get $50 off.  Represents savings off of regular,  non-promotional 
prices.  Ends 5/10/2020 at 8:59  PM  PST.  Offers subject to availability. Valid  on  qualifying  purchases at  portal.facebook.com  and  at 
participating  retailers.  Unless otherwise stated, cannot  be combined  with  other offers,  discounts or coupons.  Not valid  on  prior 
orders or  purchases;  cannot  be transferred  or otherwise  redeemed for cash.  Retailer or  Facebook Technologies,  LLC  reserves the 
right to cancel  or  modify this offer at any time without  notice where  necessary. Void where  prohibited. 
WhatsApp video calling  requires active WhatsApp account.