Set up Google Home and Google Home Mini 
The initial steps are for first-time Google Home app users. If you’re already set up a Google Home device 
and are setting up another device, you can skip to step 7.  
1.  Plug in Google Home.  
2.  Install the Google Home app   by navigating to g.co/home/setup on your Google 
Home supported Android device. 
1.  Or click to download the Google Home app for Android. 
3.  Make sure to connect your mobile device/tablet to the same Wi-Fi network that you intend to use 
to set up your Google Home device. 
4.   Open the Google Home app by tapping the app icon on your Android device. 
5.  Tap Get Started. 
6.  Confirm Google Account: Choose which Google Account you want to link to Google Home. You 
can also add a different account if you don’t see the account you want to use listed. Tap Ok.  
7.  Permissions:  
1.  Location services - If you don’t have Location services on, tap Go to settings   find 
the Google Home app   turn on Location services   go back to the Google Home app.  
2.  Location access - Location access is needed to find nearby devices that need setup. 
Tap OK.  
8.  Scanning for Google Home devices: The Google Home app scans for nearby devices that are 
plugged in and ready to set up. 
1.  If no devices are found, and you’re setting up a device, tap Yes. Make sure you’re near 
the Google Home device that you are setting up and it’s plugged into a wall outlet. Tap Next. 
2.  If no devices are found, and you’re not setting up a device, tap No. 
9.  Found devices:  
1.  If one device is found, tap Next.  
2.  If multiple devices are found, choose the device you want to set up   Next.  
3.  If you don’t see your device, tap Don’t see your device.  
10.  Connecting to your new device: The app will now connect your phone to your new Google 
Home so that you can configure it. 
11.   Making a connection:  We’ll play a sound on the device  to make sure you’re setting up the 
right device. 
1.  If you hear the sound, tap Yes. 
2.  If you didn’t hear a sound, move closer to the Google Home device and tap Try 
again    Scan for devices. 
3.  Privacy settings: Send usage data to Google to improve the product and set up Guest 
mode. Toggle the slider off to adjust these settings.  
12.  Region selection: You may need to set your region. Tap the region list   select your 
region   Continue. If you don’t see this screen, move to step 13.  
13.  Assistant language: If your phone language isn’t set to a language that’s supported by the 
Google Assistant, you’ll need to choose a supported language. Tap Next. 
•  Note: The language you select will be applied to all of your Google Home devices.  
•  If you don’t see this screen, move to step 14.   14.  Room selection: Choose the room where your device  is located. This helps you identify the 
device when you want to cast to it. Tap Next. 
•  You can create a custom room room by tapping Add custom room  type in Room 
name   Next.  
15.  Wi-Fi connection: Choose the Wi-Fi network you want to connect to your device. Tap Next. If 
you don’t see your Wi-fi network, tap Other Wi-Fi Network...   
0.  Password: 
1.  To automatically fetch the password for this network on this device, tap Get 
Password. The password will populate in the password field. Note: Android L and above is 
required to auto fetch the password. The Google Home app will remember this network when 
you set up more devices. If you don’t want the Google Home app to remember this network, 
uncheck Use this Wi-Fi network to set up future devices.If you selected a Wi-Fi network from 
the list, you’ll be prompted to enter your Wi-Fi password. Then tap Connect. The Google Home 
app will remember this network when you set up more devices. If you don’t want the Google 
Home app to remember this network, uncheck Use this Wi-Fi network to set up future 
devices. 
2.  To manually enter the password, tap Enter manually   type in 
password   Connect. The Google Home app will remember this network when you set up 
more devices. If you don’t want the Google Home app to remember this network, uncheck Use 
this Wi-Fi network to set up future devices. 
1.  If you selected Other Wi-Fi network, you will need to manually enter the Network Name, 
Password, and select the Security Mode you use with your network. 
16.  Google Assistant setup:  Set up your Assistant for a personalized experience. Tap Next   read 
permissions   Yes I’m in.  
•  If you don’t accept the permissions, tap Cancel. Note: Remember you won’t be able to 
use your Google Assistant or use voice commands. The device can only be used as a speaker. 
Tap I’m sure.  
17.  Teach your Assistant your voice: You can teach your Assistant to recognize your voice.  This 
allows the Assistant to provide personal results when it recognizes your voice. Follow the prompts. 
•  Note: Now that you’ve trained your voice, other people in your home can still use Google 
Home but they won’t get personalized answers until they teach their Assistant to recognize their 
voice.  
•  If you don’t teach the Assistant your voice, you’ll be asked if you want the Assistant to be 
able to provide personal results. This means that anyone who talks to the device will be able to access 
your personal results, since the Assistant won’t be able to recognize your voice and differentiate 
between the people in your home. 
18.  Address: The Google Home app will ask for access to use your location to pre-fill your address. 
If you allow access, your address will be pre-filled. Otherwise you will need to enter it manually. This is 
the address where your device is located. Enter your address   Next.  
•  Note: You can Skip entering your address, but the Assistant won’t be able to answer 
questions about local weather, traffic, or businesses. 
19.  Email subscription: Discover tips and new features with email updates for your device and the 
Google Assistant. Tap Subscribe.  
20.  Media services:  Access your music and movie services.  
0.  Music services: Tap + and follow the account linking steps. Tap Next.  
1.  Default music service: If you have more than one music service linked, you will be 
asked to select a Default music service: Tap the service you want to use as default    Next. If you 
haven’t linked the account, follow the steps.  2.  Video services: Tap + and follow the account linking steps. Tap Next.  
21.  Link TVs and speakers:  To control your Chromecast devices with your voice, you must link 
them to Google Home. Supported devices on the same Wi-Fi network are automatically selected. 
0.  To de-select a device, tap the device. 
1.  Tap Next.  
22.  Name your linked devices:  If your linked devices have a name with special characters, you’ll be 
asked to rename them so that they are easy to speak and the Assistant can recognize them. Type in a 
name for your devices  Next.  
23.  Video services:  Access your favorite video services.  
0.  Link services: Tap + and follow the account linking steps. Tap Next.  
24.  Summary screen: Here’s a review of what you set up. You can choose to set up other 
functionality. Tap Continue   Finish setup.  
25.  Set up is successful. You're all done!  
26.  Learn more about Google Assistant: Read how to use your device and suggested voice 
commands. Tap Finish Setup.  
 