HomeTroller Zee Quick-Start Guide 
Congratulations on your purchase!  Your HomeTroller Zee is ready to put you in 
control of your home.  Please take a few minutes to read through this guide to 
familiarize yourself with the steps required to set up your Z-Wave network and 
your HomeTroller Zee. 
STEP #1 – HomeTroller Zee Initial Setup 
After you’ve created your Z-Wave network, you’ll need to install your 
HomeTroller Zee. Follow these steps: 
HomeTroller Zee Hardware Installation 
a)  Unpack the HomeTroller Zee, Ethernet cable and AC power supply. 
b)  Connect the Ethernet cable to your HomeTroller Zee and to a network 
port on your internet router. 
c)  Connect the Z-Stick to one of the USB ports on your HomeTroller Zee 
d)  Connect the AC power adapter to your HomeTroller Zee to begin the boot process.  Allow the unit to boot fully 
(about 1 minute and 45 seconds). 
Accessing the HomeTroller Zee Web Interface 
Once the unit boots, you’ll need to access the web interface to 
set the system up.  The method below should work with any 
browser on any device (mobile or desktop). 
a)  Navigate to http://find.homeseer.com 
b)  Click the “Search” button.  Your HomeSeer system 
should now appear at the bottom. 
c)  Click the IP address hyperlink to access your system’s 
web interface. 
Set Your System Password 
The system password screen will appear the first time you run your HomeTroller Zee.  You MUST set a system password 
to prevent unauthorized access to your unit.  Please do this now by following the prompts on your screen. 
Activate and Register Your HomeTroller Zee Online 
Be sure to activate your HomeTroller Zee and register the unit to receive HomeSeer support.  To do this, make you’re 
your unit is connected to the internet and follow these steps: 
a)  From the HomeTroller Zee web interface, use the pull down menus to navigate to the General Tab of the Setup 
Area (TOOLS > Setup) 
b)  Click the “Register Online” button in the License section of the Setup screen and enter your license codes.  
Note: License codes are included on a sticker on the bottom of your HomeTroller Zee. 
Setting the Time Zone and Updating Your HomeTroller Zee 
Be sure to set the time zone and check for updates and install any that are available.  To do this, follow these steps: 
   
Page 1 
   
  a)  Access the General Tab of the Setup Area again and scroll to the “Location” area.  Find the Time Zone field and 
change that to time zone where your HomeTroller Zee is installed.  Example: US – America/New_York 
b)  From the HomeTroller Zee web interface, use the pull down menus to navigate to the General Tab of the Setup 
Area (TOOLS > Setup). If an update is available, click the update button near to top of the page and wait for the 
update to download and install. Your HomeTroller Zee will automatically reboot once the update is installed. 
Configuring the Wi-Fi Adapter 
If you ordered the Wi-Fi adapter with your Zee, follow these instructions for setting it up: (You must have HS set up with 
the Ethernet cable first) 
a)  Connect the Wi-Fi adapter to your HomeTroller with the Ethernet cable plugged in still. 
b)  Access the Network Tab of the Setup section. Locate the Wi-Fi Settings section. 
c)  Enter the SSID (Wi-Fi network name) of your Wi-Fi. (This is case sensitive) 
d)  Choose your encryption type and enter your Wi-Fi password.  Keep ‘Use DHCP’ checked. 
e)  Go to Tools->System->Shutdown System. Once the system is shutdown. Unplug the power and then the 
Ethernet cable. Now reconnect the power and let the system boot. 
f)  If you go to find.homeseer.com now, it should show another HomeTrollerZEE. This is your new IP address and 
are all set to use the Wi-Fi adapter. 
STEP #2 – Local/Remote Remote Access 
MyHS Remote is a free remote tool that will allow you to access the HS3 interface of the HomeTroller from any remote 
computer via home network (LAN) or the internet (WAN).  The HomeTroller can also be accessed locally via IP address 
and/or computer name. See below for instructions.  
Accessing Your HomeTroller Locally  
HS3 can be accessed from any computer on the same local network just by typing in 
the IP Address (i.e. 192.168.1.10) of your HomeTroller.  
Using HomeSeer MyHS Remote Service  
Welcome to the MyHomeSeer Remote. MyHS will allow you to access your HS3 
system from anywhere without having to access your router. There are requirements 
for MyHS to work. HS3 must be version 3.0.0.97 or later. HSTouch Android client 
requires 1.0.0.76 or later. Please make sure to update to these versions. It is 
recommended that you uninstall the application 
and then reinstall it from the Play Store/iTunes 
Store. (This guide assumes you have HSTouch 
Server already set up. If you do not, please 
refer to the HS3 Quick Start Guide on setting 
that up). Now, let’s get started! 
To begin using MyHSRemote you will need to 
register your HS3 software with the connected 
service. 
 
 
   
Page 2 
   
  Registration 
a)  Once the HSTouch has finished installing, go ahead and open it up. You will be prompted with a Log In to MyHS 
screen.  
b)  Click Register. Your default browser will come forward and load 
the registration page.  
c)  Enter in the preferred email address you would like to use to be 
tied to your MyHS for the Account Email Address. This will later be 
used as your MyHS username.  
d)  Enter a preferred Account Password. You will use this as the 
password to enter in your MyHS settings. 
e)  The License ID you are asked for is your HS3 licenseID. The same 
goes for your License Password. (For HomeTroller HS3 users, this 
is located on the bottom of your unit. For HS3 Software users, this 
information was emailed to you.) 
f)  Click Register. You will receive a confirmation on the next screen 
unless errors are detected. You will also be emailed an email that 
requires a confirmation. Click the link in the email. 
STEP #3 - Z-Wave Network Setup 
In order to control Z-Wave devices, such as light switches, thermostats, door locks and sensors, they must be included 
into a Z-Wave “network”. Follow the steps below to create your Z-Wave network and to include devices.  Note: the steps 
below assume you’ve already physically installed Z-Wave devices in your home. 
Including Externally Powered Devices (wall switches, receptacles, plug-in modules, etc) 
a)  Unpack the enclosed black USB “Z-Stick” and put it into “inclusion mode” by 
pressing and releasing the large round button on one side. A blue LED light 
around the button will begin blinking slowly.   
b)  While the Z-Stick is in inclusion mode, position it within 1-3 feet of your Z-Wave 
device.  Now press the network button (or paddle) on your Z-Wave device and 
observe the blinking LED on the Z-Stick.  If successful, the LED light will glow 
solidly for about 2 seconds and then will begin blinking slowly again.  Note: If 
the LED does not glow solidly, the device may need to be reset.  Reset the 
device by following the procedure outlined in “Excluding Devices” below. 
c)  If you have other Z-Wave devices to add to your network, you may keep the  
Z-Stick in inclusion mode and add the remaining devices using the procedure above.  Once you’re finished, tap 
the button on the Z-Stick again.  The LED light will turn off and it will no longer be in inclusion mode. 
Including Battery Powered Devices (door locks, environmental sensors, etc) 
Battery operated devices must be included into your Z-Wave network using the HomeTroller Zee web interface. Follow 
the steps below to include your battery operated device(s).  
a)  Position your battery operated Z-Wave device within 1-3 Feet of your HomeTroller Zee. 
b)  From the web interface, use the pull down menus to navigate to the Z-Wave Controller Management page 
(PLUG-INS > Z-Wave > Controller Management). 
c)  Locate the “Z-Wave Interfaces” area and expand the ZStick section.  Open the “Actions:” menu and choose 
“Add/Include a Node”. 
   
Page 3 
   
  d)  Click the ‘Start’ button below the Actions menu.  Your HomeTroller Zee is now in inclusion mode and is ready to 
communicate with your battery operated device. 
e)  Activate the network button (or button sequence) on your battery operated device and observe the inclusion 
process in the green log window.  When done, you’ll receive an acknowledgement such as “Finished with 
Replication process”. Your battery operated device is now included in your Z-Wave network! 
 Excluding Devices 
Follow the procedure below to (a) reset the device to its factory settings or (b) remove the device from your Z-Wave 
interface. 
a)  To put the Z-Stick into “exclusion mode”, press and hold its round button for 3 seconds.  The LED light will begin 
to blink rapidly. 
b)  Position the Z-Stick within 1 – 3 feet of your Z-Wave device and press the network button or paddle on your Z-
Wave device.  The blue LED light on your Z-Stick will glow solidly for about 2 seconds and then return to blinking 
rapidly.  Your device has now been reset or removed from your network.   
STEP #4 – Importing, Editing and Controlling Your Z-Wave Devices 
After you’ve created your Z-Wave network, you’ll need to import that network into your HomeTroller Zee, so that your 
devices can be monitored and controlled.  Here’s how to do that: 
Importing Z-Wave Devices 
g)  From the web interface, use the pull down menus to navigate to the Z-Wave Controller Management page 
(PLUG-INS > Z-Wave > Controller Management). 
h)  Locate the “Z-Wave Interfaces” area and expand the ZStick section.  Open the “Actions:” menu and choose 
“Import Node Info from Controller and Scan Devices”. 
i)  Click the ‘Start’ button below the Actions menu.  Your HomeTroller Zee is will now import your device 
information from the Z-Stick.  When done, you’ll receive an acknowledgement such as “Finished with Z-Wave 
device synchronization”. Your Z-Wave devices may now be monitored and controlled from the HomeTroller Zee! 
Editing and Controlling Your Z-Wave devices 
a)  From the web interface, use the pull down menus to navigate to the Device Management Page (VIEW > Device 
Management). Click the “Show All” button in the upper right hand area of the page.  A list of all your devices will 
now be displayed. 
b)  To edit the name, location and other properties of any device, click the name. 
c)  To control the device, use the buttons in the control column. 
 
 
 
   
Page 4 
   
  STEP #5 – Z-Wave Device Configuration 
With Z-Wave devices, configuration can be done for each device. There are also tools for failed communication with 
these devices as well. Follow these steps to  
Configuring Device Settings 
a)  From the web interface, go to your Device Management page and click on the device you wish to configure. 
b)  Click on the Z-Wave tab. 
c)  Here you can Rescan, Remove, Test, Optimize, and Audit the node. Associations can also be set here. 
d)  Expanding the Settings section will allow you to change the wake-up interval for battery operated devices. Here 
you will also see many settings for different parameters depending on the device. 
 
STEP #6 – Creating Automation Events 
Simply put, an automation event consists of an action (or actions) that are set into motion by one or more triggers.  
Example: Turning on lights at sunset.  Trigger = sunset, Action = turning lights on. With HomeTroller Zee, you can quickly 
and easily create all the events you 
need.  Here’s how to create the sunset 
event above: 
Creating Events 
e)  From the web interface, use 
the pull down menus to 
navigate to the Events page 
(VIEW > Events). 
f)  Change the event group name 
from “New Group” to 
“Lighting”.  
g)  Now expand the “New Event” section and rename the new event to “Lights on at Sunset” 
h)  In the shaded blue “Trigger” section, choose “The Time Is…” and then ZEEect “The Time is Sunset” 
i)  If the shaded green “Actions” section, choose “Control a Device” and then ZEEect the device you wish to control 
and the method of control (on / off) you wish to use.  The resulting event will look like this: 
Remote Access 
This Quick Start Guide is designed to cover initial setup of the unit for local (LAN) access and control. However, the unit 
may also be accessed remotely from other computers and mobile devices. Please see the complete online 
documentation for topics and information on setting up remote access. 
   
Page 5 
   
  STEP #7 – Setting up Z-Wave and X10 
 
PROBLEM: HomeTroller Zee includes an automatic port assignment function that's designed to simplify setup for users 
with a single protocol system (Z-Wave or X10). However, users with a multi-protocol system (Z-Wave and X10) may 
experience port assignment problems if the Z-Wave or X10 interfaces are detached and reattached to/from the system 
before being fully configured. If you have a multi-protocol system, follow the configuration steps below to ensure proper 
port assignment. 
 
SOLUTION 
1.    Navigate to the PLUG-INS > Z-Wave > Controller Management page and disable the Z-Wave interface. If there is a 
white button with a green checkbox at the top of the area, click it. If there is a yellow button with a red circle, no action 
is needed. 
2.    Navigate to the PLUG-INS > Manage page and disable the X10 and Z-Wave plug-ins. 
3.    Detach the X10 and Z-Wave interfaces from your HomeTroller Zee. Leave these detached until prompted to 
reattach below. 
4.    Navigate to the TOOLS > System > Restart System page and click the [Restart...] button to restart your HomeTroller 
Zee. 
5.    After the Zee has fully booted, attach the X10 interface cable to one of the USB ports. Navigate to the PLUG-INS > 
Manage page, ZEEect the available port and enable the X10 plug-in. Test the X10 plugin by creating an X10 device in 
the device management page. 
6.    If X10 testing was successful, navigate to then PLUG-INS > Manage page and enable the Z-Wave plug-in. NOW, 
attach to Z-Stick to the remaining USB port. The system will reboot and assign a port to the ZStick. 
7.    Once the box has restarted, navigate to PLUG-INS > Z-Wave > Controller Management page and click the yellow 
button with the red crossed circle to enable the Z-Stick interface. 
At this point, both interfaces should be properly connected and fully functional.  
Note: To avoid future port assignment problems, do not disconnect the X10 interface cable. 
 
STEP #8 – HSTouch Server Setup  
After you have successfully connected to your Wi-Fi network, you will need to make sure HSTouch Server is properly set 
up before connecting the client to your HomeSeer system. Follow the instructions below to set up HSTouch Server. 
a)  Go to the Plug-in’s menu within your HomeSeer Web Control and click on Manage. 
b)  If HSTouch Server is not installed follow these steps, otherwise skip to step f 
c)  Click on Additional Interfaces to expand the plug-in updater. 
d)  Scroll down to User Interfaces and expand that. Check the box next to HomeSeer HSTouch Sever. 
e)  Scroll back up and click on Download and Install. 
f)  Now that HSTouch Sever is installed we will need to enable it. Underneath the Enable column click on the red 
toggle. It should become green with a check mark in it.  
 
   
Page 6 
   
      
 
g)  HSTouch Server is now enabled. You can now go into HSTouch on your device to configure HSTouch. 
Setting Up IP Cameras 
For setting up an IP Camera within HS3, follow the instructions below. Note that all Foscam IP Netcams will be 
automatically detected by HS3 whereas other cameras will not. 
a)  Now that HStouch is enabled you should be able to go to Plug-ins->HSTouch Server->HSTouch. 
b)  At the bottom you will see an IP Camera section. All Foscam cameras will automatically show up here. Yoou will 
need to enter the username and password for each camera. 
c)  For other branded cameras click the Green Plus to add a camera. 
d)  Here you can name the camera, add the snapshot url (this will include the username and password), and then 
set up pan/tilt controls. 
STEP #9 – HSTouch Client Setup 
Here you will configure your settings and connect to your HomeSeer system to allow for control from your device. Follow 
the instructions below to set up the HSTouch Client. For iOS, please go to your Settings App first. 
a)  HSTouch will prompt you to ZEEect a server 
or settings. Click settings. (The first launch 
will require an initial setup.) A menu on the 
bottom right will pop up. Click Settings again. 
(This menu can also be used to switch 
between servers, go to settings, or exit the 
app.) 
b)  Within the settings you are given multiple 
options. Servers 1-4 allow you to configure 
each server for different locations. 
c)  ZEEect the server you would like to have as 
your Home setup.  
d)  Configure a Label for that HomeSeer system. 
Click Address to enter the IP Address or 
Domain of the HomeSeer System. 
e)  Now that you have set up the connection 
address, go ahead and enter in your 
Username and Password for that server. 
There is no need to change the port. 
f)  You can follow steps c-e for the remaining 3 
connections. 
g)  If you go back to the main settings screen, 
there are other options for setting up 
HSTouch. 
   
Page 7 
   
  h)  Connection Mode allows you to choose a 
default connection for each time you start 
HSTouch. (HSTouch will no longer prompt to 
choose a connection at the beginning.) 
i)  Dim Systembar allows for the bottom 
systembar to be dimmed. Font Scaling allows 
for changing the scaling factor.  
j)  Auto Size allows for auto-sizing of the project 
being used for your device. Client Name will 
allow you to change the name of your 
device’s HSTouch Client. (For use with 
HSTouch Designer). Zipcode is used for 
weather. 
k)  Now that your Client has been set up, go back to the Main Screen and go to the settings menu on the bottom 
right. Click Exit. Now go to your app drawer and click HSTouch. This will allow for any changes to take place. 
l)  You are now ready to control your home via your device! 
Setting Up MyHS Remote 
The next step involves going into the HSTouch application and entering in your 
Account Username and Account Password. 
a)  Open up the HSTouch application. It will give you the same prompt as 
earlier to Log In to MyHS.  
b)  The email you used to register is your Username and the password you 
used will be used as the Password. 
c)  Click Ok and HSTouch will now connect.  
d)  HSTouch will now always connect through MyHS when launching. This will 
work from any location and any network. 
 
STEP #10 – HS3 Recovery (911) 
The ability to fix any settings related issues or update issues with your Zee can now be address by adding :911 to the 
end of your IP address as the port number. This Recovery page will frequently be updated with new ways to fix your Zee. 
This page will only work when on the local network. 911 requires HS3 version 3.0.0.144 or later. 
 
  Option 1: Use option 1 if you cannot access your system due to forgetting username, changing settings that 
cause HS3 to not boot correctly, or enabling a plug-in that may cause HS3 to crash. 
  Option 2: Use option 2 if you want to revert back to an update or update to the latest version. 
  Update HS Recovery Utility: Use this to check for updates to your Recovery page with added recovery options. 
  Return to HS: This will bring you back to find.homeseer.com to find your HS3 system. 
   
Page 8 
   
     
   
Page 9 
   
  Icon Legend for HS3 
This is a list of the icons that are found in HS3 with a description of their function. 
Note: Some buttons are multi-functional.  
 
ICON  DESCRIPTION 
Add / Delete 
        
Copy Event 
 
Standard Editing / Advanced Editing 
        
Toggle Edit Mode 
 
Enabled / Disabled 
        
Error communicating 
 
Expand / Collapse Section 
        
Marked Devices Shown/Header and Menus Shown –  
         Marked Devices Hidden/Header and Menus Not Shown 
Access Log Settings 
 
Poll Devices for Status 
 
Reset Layout to Default 
 
Run Event 
 
Devices Ungrouped / Grouped 
        
Add a Keyword or Pair 
 
Group Conditions are used / not being used 
        
Expand Device Management Page / Collapse Device Management Page 
        
 
*If you want to know what that button will do, just hover your cursor over the icon and small text will show to provide 
definition. 
   
   
Page 10 
   
  Troubleshooting Your HomeTroller Zee 
Symptom  Cause  Solution 
Ac Adapter Unplugged  Plug-In Adapter 
Unit Won’t Power On  AC Adapter Bad 
Contact Homeseer 
Power Cable Bad 
USB Hardware Conflict  Detach USB Device And Reboot 
Unit Powers On But Won’t Boot  Software Failure 
Contact Homeseer 
Hardware Failure 
Device Was Previously Installed On  Use “Exclude Device” Procedure To 
Z-Wave Devices Cannot Be Included  Another Z-Wave Network  Reset Device, Then Try To Include 
Into Z-Wave Network  Device Failure  Replace Device 
Z-Stick Failure  Contact Homeseer 
Hometroller Zee Not Powered On  Power Unit On 
Hometroller Zee Not Fully Booted  Wait 2 Minutes For Unit To Boot 
HSDiscover Cannot Locate Device 
Hometroller Zee Not Connected To 
Connect Unit To Router And Reboot 
LAN 
Door Locks Won’t Include Or Can’t 
Exclude Devices and Repeat 
Be Controlled  Inclusion Process Incorrect Or 
Procedure Outline In “Including 
Sensors Won’t Include Or Can’t Be  Incomplete 
Battery Powered Devices” Section 
Monitored 
Wi-Fi not Connecting  Incorrect Wi-Fi SSID or Password  Contact HomeSeer 
All Other Problems    Contact HomeSeer 
 
HomeSeer Technologies 
10 Commerce Park North, Unit #10 
Bedford, NH 03110 
www.homeseer.com 
603-471-2816 
 
   
Page 11 
   
 