QUICK START GUIDE 6. When prompted, scan the setup code or manually enter the setup code, and  Smart Light Bulb Overview
then follow the step to add the device to the Home and Room. Please keep the 
setup code for future use.
1. Screw the Smart Light Bulb into a desired light socket. The Smart Light Bulb will 
7. You can assign a name to your Smart Light Bulb and use this name when 
light up in warm white to indicate it is ready for network setup.
speaking to Siri. For example, you can name your Smart Light Bulb “Bedroom 
Light”, then launch Siri and speak “Turn on the Bedroom Light”.
2. Make sure your iPhone or iPad (iOS 8.1 or later) is connected to a 2.4GHz Wi-Fi 
network. Using the router utility software, shutdown 5GHz Wi-Fi networks.  E27 base 
8. Set up customized scenes to control multiple devices with a single command. 
For example, if you assign the “I'm going to bed” command to the scene of 
3. Download and open the free Koogeek Home app from the App Store.
turning off bedroom light and turning on the living room light, when you speak 
Restore factory settings
“I'm going to bed” to Siri, everything is done. 
4. Log in or sign up for a Koogeek account or simply tap Skip.
9. For troubleshooting visit  www.koogeek.com  After you screw the Smart Light Bulb into your existing light ﬁtting, use your 
5. Tap “+” on the top right corner and follow the on-screen directions to complete 
wall light switch to turn on and off the Smart Light Bulb for 5 times and 
network setup. Note: then the light color of the Smart Light Bulb will turn red. When the light 
The use of a HomeKit-enabled accessory need the follow permissions:  color turns cold white again, it indicates that you have restored the device 
Settings > iCloud > iCloud Drive > Turn On to factory settings.
Settings > iCloud > Keychain > Turn On
Settings > Privacy > HomeKit > Koogeek Home > Turn On
Specifications
Input: 100 - 240AC , 50/60 Hz 0.07A ( MAX )
Form factor: E27
LED power: 7W (Max.)
Note:  Luminous ﬂux: 500LM
To add more light bulbs (or repeat the Smart Light Bulb setup process), tap “+” and  Wi-Fi: 802.11b/g/n,2 .4 GHz ONLY
you will see the accessory list. Each accessory has an identiﬁcation code, e.g.,  General use
Koogeek-XXX-XXXXXX. Make sure the last 6 characters of the identiﬁcation code is 
consistent with the last 6 characters of MAC on your Smart Light Bulb. 
Safety Warnings Operation is Subject to the Following 
Two Conditions
Turn off power before inspection, installation and removal.
For indoor use only This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC rules. Operation is subject to the following two 
Remove Smart Light Bulb from the light socket before cleaning conditions: 1) this device may not cause harmful interference, and 2) this device must accept 
DO NOT clean with liquid any interference received, including interference that may cause undesired operation.
Changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party responsible for compliance could 
DO NOT use in wet or damp areas void the user's authority to operate the equipment.
Keep children away from Smart Light Bulb The distance between user and products should be no less than 20cm
DO NOT exceed the recommended electrical ratings
DO NOT use with dimmers
DO NOT use in enclosed environments
This device complies with Industry Canada license-exempt RSS standard(s). 
Operation is subject to the follow two conditions: (1) This device may not cause 
interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference, including 
interference that may cause undesired operation of the device.
Legal
Cet appareil est conforme avec Industrie Canada exempts de licence standard 
RSS(s). Son fonctionnement est soumis aux deux conditions suivantes: (1) Cet 
appareil ne doit pas provoquer d'interférences et (2) cet appareil doit accepter 
Use of the Works with Apple HomeKit logo means that an electronic 
toute interférence, y compris celles pouvant causer un mauvais fonctionnement 
accessory has been designed to connect speciﬁcally to iPod touch, iPhone, or 
de l'appareil.
iPad, respectively, and has been certiﬁed by the developer to meet Apple 
performance standards. Apple is not responsible for the operation of this 
device or its compliance with safety and regulatory standards.
Controlling this HomeKit-enabled accessory automatically and away from 
home requires an Apple TV with tvOS 10.1 or later or an iPad with iOS 10.1 or 
later set up as a home hub. f LIGHT BULB
Follow Koogeek www.facebook.com/koogeek
QUICK START GUIDE Warning  tatement 
S
This device complies with part 15 of the FCC Rules. Operation is subject to the 
following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) 
this device must accept any interference received, including interference that may cause 
undesired operation. 
 
Any Changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party responsible for 
compliance could void the user's authority to operate the equipment. 
 
Note: This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B 
digital device, pursuant to part 15 of the FCC Rules. These limits are designed to 
provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a residential installation. 
This equipment generates uses and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not 
installed and used in accordance with the instructions, may cause harmful interference 
to radio communications. However, there is no guarantee that interference will not 
occur in a particular installation. If this equipment does cause harmful interference to 
radio or television reception, which can be determined by turning the equipment off and 
on, the user is encouraged to try to correct the interference by one or more of the 
following measures: 
-Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna. 
-Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver. 
-Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the 
receiver is connected. 
-Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician for help. 
 
This equipment complies with FCC radiation exposure limits set forth for an 
uncontrolled environment. This equipment should be installed and operated with 
minimum distance 20cm between the radiator & your body. 
 