LIFX.COM MEET YOUR NEW LIFX®
LIFX is color changing, Wi-Fi lighting that you 
control with your smartphone or tablet. 
With the LIFX app you can switch your lights on 
and off, dim, adjust brightness and color, set 
different scenes and set wake up and sleep timers. 
You can control individual lights, rooms, or the 
entire house.
Even if you don’t have your smartphone with you, 
LIFX still functions like a normal light by switching 
on and off with a regular light switch. ALL YOU NEED TO BEGIN IS...
• A device running iOS 9.0+ or Android 4.1+ 
•  A Wi-Fi Internet connection. Wi-Fi access point 
must be 802.11b, g or n compliant with WPA2 security 
and a DHCP-configured connection available for every 
connected LIFX® light.
•  The LIFX app from your app store or at  
go.lifx.com   
Simply complete the installation and setup steps on the next pages then follow the 
app prompts to enjoy your new lights! LIFX Z LIFX Z LIFX Z
EXTENSION EXPERIENCE
2 strips, 2m / 6.6’ 1 strip, 1m / 3.3’ 3 strips, 3m / 9.9’  INSTALL
CLEAN PEEL STICK SETUP
go.lifx.com
CONNECT GET APP SWITCH ON EXTEND
10 m, Max 30 W / 33’ 
1 second CARE
Max 90° bend Do not bend at LED S You can get  EXTENSION  EXTENSION 
E extension cables  CABLE (LONG) CABLE (SHORT)
RI to customize your 
O LIFX Z to suit 
S different places.
S
E Cables help you 
C run your LIFX Z 
AC strip around 
AL  caondrn tehrrso, uagcrho gssa p s 
N and more.
O
DITI Tliagkhet inyogu fru srtthriepr —
D
A Visit LIFX.com  1 cable, 1m / 3.28’ 1 cable, 10cm / 3.9” USING EXTENSION CABLES WITH STRIPS
Including extension cables between strips, max total length is 10m / 33’ 
with a max 30W. Always connect strip pieces with extension cables with 
the curved surface oriented upwards to avoid damaging the pins. 
Be careful when connecting the LIFX Z pins into the extension. They can 
be fractionally different in alignment and forcing the pins in incorrectly 
will cause damage.  HomeKit™
1. 2. 4.Open Apple Home App
Open App Store
Use iOS 10.0   “Add accessory”
or later.
3. 5.
Get  
Apple Home  
App
Use HomeKit setup  
code on manual Apple HomeKit technology provides an easy, secure way 
to control your home’s lights, doors, thermostats, and 
more from your iPhone®, iPad®, or iPod touch®.
To control this HomeKit-enabled accessory, iOS 10.0 or later is recommended.
Controlling this HomeKit-enabled accessory automatically and away from home 
requires an Apple TV with tvOS 10.0 or later or an iPad with iOS 10.0 or later set 
up as a home hub.
Use of the Works with Apple HomeKit logo means that an electronic accessory has 
been designed to connect specifically to iPod touch, iPhone, or iPad, respectively, 
and has been certified by the developer to meet Apple performance standards. 
Apple is not responsible for the operation of this device or its compliance with 
safety and regulatory standards.
Keep your user manual for the HomeKit setup code in the future. 
Apple, iPhone, iPad and iPod touch are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the 
U.S. and other countries. HomeKit is a trademark of Apple Inc. REGULATORY & COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
Specifications
To see a full list of LIFX® product specifications applicable to this Product, go to 
www.lifx.com/compliance
Certification
LIFX® adheres to the certification requirements for various regions around the world.
To see a full list of LIFX® certifications please go to www.lifx.com/compliance to 
ensure LIFX® complies with the certification requirements in your region.
FCC Compliance Statement U.S
This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class 
B digital device, under Part 15 of the FCC Rules. These limits provide reasonable 
protection against harmful interference in a residential installation. This equipment 
generates, uses and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed and 
used under the instructions, may interfere with radio or television reception, which 
can be determined by turning the equipment off and on. The user is encouraged   to correct the interference by one or more of the following measures:
• Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna
•  Increase the separation between the equipment and the receiver
•  Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which 
the receiver is connected
•  Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician for help
Changes or modifications not approved by LIFX can void the user’s authority to 
operate the equipment.
This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC Rules. Operation is subject to the 
following two conditions: (1) This device may not cause harmful interference, and (2) 
this device must accept any interference received, including interference that may 
cause undesired operation. Contains FCC ID: PPQ-MP1
EU Declaration of Conformity and Industry Canada 
Compliance.
LIFX complies with all applicable EU Directives and Industry Canada Standards. This 
Class B RFLD complies with the Canadian standard ICES-005. Contains IC: 4491A-
MP1.  See www.lifx.com/compliance RF EXPOSURE WARNING
This equipment must be installed and operated in accordance with provided 
instructions and the antenna(s) used for this transmitter must be installed to provide 
a separation distance of at least 20 cm from all persons and must not be co-located 
or operating in conjunction with any other antenna or transmitter. End-users and 
installers must be provided with antenna installation instructions and transmitter 
operating conditions for satisfying RF exposure compliance.
This device complies with Industry Canada license-exempt RSS standard(s). 
Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) this device may not cause 
interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference, including interference 
that may cause undesired operation of the device.
Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d’Industrie Canada applicables aux 
appareils radio exempts de licence. L’exploitation est autorisée aux deux conditions 
suivantes : (1) l’appareil ne doit pas produire de brouillage, et (2) l’utilisateur de 
l’appareil doit accepter tout brouillage radioélectrique subi, même si le brouillage 
est susceptible d’en compromettre le fonctionnement.
  Radiation Exposure Statement 
This equipment complies with IC radiation exposure limits set forth for an 
uncontrolled environment.
Déclaration d’exposition aux radiations
Cet équipement est conforme aux limites d’exposition aux rayonnements IC 
établies pour un environnement non contrôlé.
CHANGES & MODIFICATION
Changes or modifications made to this device may void certification of the 
device. Changes or modifications made to this unit not expressly approved by 
the party responsible for compliance could void the user‘s authority to operate 
the equipment. CHANGES & MODIFICATION
Changes or modifications made to this device may void certification of the 
device. Changes or modifications made to this unit not expressly approved by 
the party responsible for compliance could void the user‘s authority to operate 
the equipment.
RECOMMENDED INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS
This device should only be installed in light fittings and fixtures that are designed  
to accept each fitting. Lamps, fittings and fixtures that are designed to accept 
smaller or lower wattage light bulbs may result in the LIFX® bulb operating below 
its optimal capacity. For optimal performance it is recommended that LIFX® bulbs 
be fitted into fixtures that provide sufficient air flow through and around the bulb.  
It is recommended that the LIFX® bulb be installed away from other devices 
designed to receive or transmit radio signals. It is recommended LIFX® bulb/s  
be installed and operated at a minimum distance of 30 cm from the body.  
For lamps with a weight significantly higher than that of lamps for which they are  
a replacement, attention should be drawn to the fact that the increased weight  
may reduce the mechanical stability of certain luminaires and may impair contact  
making and lamp retention. INTERFERENCE
LIFX® has been designed to minimise interference with other radio, broadcast 
or receiving devices. The manufacturer is not responsible for any interference 
caused as a result of modifications to the product or by failure to adhere to the 
recommendations in this document and at support.lifx.com. This device generates 
radio frequency energy and, if not installed in accordance with the “recommended 
installation requirements” may cause harmful interference to radio communication 
devices. If the device is causing radio interference it is recommended that the 
user try: 
a)  relocating the device to a different place;
b)  adjust the antenna on the receiving device;
c)    consult a technician experienced in radio interference.
NOTICES
•  This device is not intended for use with emergency exits
• For indoor use only
• Suitable for operation in ambient temperature not exceeding 35ºC LIFX® is not designed for use in:
•  Excessively hot environments (e.g. close to ovens, radiators, heaters, etc.)
•  Regions or countries other than that in which the product was intended for
•  Outdoor and wet areas, except where the LIFX® Product specifies that it is for 
both Indoor and Outdoor use
WHEN USING LIFX®
•  Switch off the power supply to the device and allow sufficient time for it to cool 
before handling it
•  Do not open device, as this will void the warranty
•  Do not clean the device when it is powered on and or connected to the wall 
socket
•  If cleaning the product, use a soft dry cloth, do not use cleaning agents
Frequency Information
Frequency Range (US & Canada): 2412-2462 MHz; 
Frequency Range (Europe & Australia): 2412-2472 MHz; 
Maximum radio-frequency power transmitted: 17.93dBm 
Modulation type: IEEE 802.11 b/g/n20 LIMITED WARRANTY
GENERAL
Lifi Labs Inc. (“LIFX®“) warrants the LIFX® bulb (the “Product“), and only the 
Product, against defects in materials and workmanship under normal use (“Defect”) 
for a period of TWO YEARS (730 days) from the date of retail purchase by the 
original purchaser (“Warranty Period“). Under this Limited Warranty, if a defect 
arises and a valid claim is received by LIFX® within the Warranty Period, at its 
option and to the extent permitted by law, LIFX® will either: 1. repair the Product 
at no charge, using new or refurbished replacement parts --or-- 2. exchange the 
Product with a new or refurbished Product.
In the event of a defect, to the extent permitted by law, these are your sole and 
exclusive remedies. A replacement Product or part assumes the remaining warranty 
of the original Product or ninety (90) days from the date of replacement or repair, 
whichever is longer. When a Product or part of the Product is exchanged, any 
replacement item becomes your property and the replaced item becomes LIFX®‘s 
property. Parts provided by LIFX® in fulfilment of its warranty obligation must be 
used in Products for which warranty service is claimed. EXCLUSIONS & LIMITATIONS
This Limited Warranty applies only to the Product manufactured by or for LIFX® that 
can be identified by the “LIFX® trademark, trade name, or logo affixed to it. The 
Limited Warranty does not apply to any (a) LIFX® products and services other than 
the Product, (b) non- LIFX® hardware product, (c) consumables (such as batteries), 
or (d) software, even if packaged or sold with the Product or embedded in the 
Product. Refer to the licenses accompanying the software for details of your rights 
with respect to its use. LIFX® does not warrant that the operation of the Product 
will meet your needs or requirements or be uninterrupted or error free. LIFX® is 
not responsible for damage arising from failure to follow instructions relating to the 
Product‘s use or from failures resulting from inadequate electrical supply or internet 
access. This warranty does not apply to a Product or part of the Product that has 
been altered or modified (e.g. to alter functionality or capability) by anyone who is 
not a representative of LIFX® or if the Product is inserted or installed in a casing not 
provided by LIFX®. In addition, this Limited Warranty does not apply to Defects or 
damage caused by (a) use with non-LIFX® products; (b) accident, abuse, misuse, 
flood, fire, earthquake or other external causes or abnormal conditions; (c) operating 
the product outside the permitted or intended uses or conditions described by LIFX® 
or with improper voltage or power supply; or (d) service (including upgrades and 
expansions) performed by anyone who is not a representative of LIFX®. Recovery and  reinstallation of software programs and user data are not covered under this Limited 
Warranty. This Limited Warranty does not cover the cost of returning the Product to 
LIFX®; this is your responsibility. No LIFX® reseller, agent, or employee is authorized to 
make any modification, extension,
or addition to this Limited Warranty. If any term is held to be illegal or unenforceable, 
the legality or enforceability of the remaining terms shall not be affected or impaired.
EXCLUSIVE WARRANTIES
THE WARRANTIES SET FORTH HEREIN ARE THE EXCLUSIVE WARRANTIES 
PROVIDED BY LIFX®, AND EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT PROHIBITED BY 
APPLICABLE LAW, ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, WHETHER EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES (INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON INFRINGEMENT) ARE 
HEREBY EXCLUDED. 
  LIMITATION OF DAMAGES
EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW, LIFX® 
SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, 
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM ANY USE OF 
THE PRODUCT OR BREACH OF EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY OR 
CONDITION, OR UNDER ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY. LIFX®’S LIABILITY 
FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM ANY USE OF THE PRODUCT OR 
BREACH OF EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY OR CONDITION, OR 
UNDER ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY WILL BE LIMITED TO THE ORIGINAL 
COST PAID FOR OF THE DEFECTIVE PRODUCT.
CONSUMER PROTECTION
Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental or consequential 
damages, or allow limitations on how long an implied warranty lasts, so the above 
limitations or exclusions may not apply to you. This warranty gives you specific 
legal rights, and you may also have other rights that vary by state to state. GOVERNING LAW AND ARBITRATION
This Limited Warranty shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without 
giving effect to any conflict of laws principles that may provide the application of the 
law of another jurisdiction and without regard to the Convention on Contracts for 
the International Sale of Goods. Any claim or dispute in connection with this Limited 
Warranty shall be resolved in a cost effective manner through binding non appearance 
based arbitration. The arbitration shall be initiated through an established alternative 
dispute resolution provider mutually agreed upon by the parties. The alternative 
dispute resolution provider and the parties must comply with the following rules: a) 
the arbitration shall be conducted by telephone, online and/or be solely based on 
written submissions, the specific manner shall be chosen by the party initiating the 
arbitration; b) the arbitration shall not involve any personal appearance by the parties 
or witnesses unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties; and c) any judgement 
on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court of competent 
jurisdiction. If the foregoing arbitration clause does not apply for any reason, you agree 
to submit to the personal jurisdiction of the state courts located within San Francisco 
County, California and the federal courts in the Northern District of California for the 
purpose of litigating all such claims or disputes, which courts shall have exclusive 
jurisdiction of such claims or disputes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, LIFX® may seek 
injunctive or other equitable relief to protect its intellectual property rights in any court  
of competent jurisdiction. EQUIPMENT 
This symbol on the product indicates that this product shall not be 
treated as household waste. Instead it shall be sent to the applicable 
collection point for the recycling of electronic equipment.  
By ensuring this product is disposed of correctly, you will help 
prevent potential negative consequences for the environment and 
human health. For more information about the recycling of this 
product, please contact your local city office.
CHROMATICITY CO-ORDINATES OF COLORED LIGHT
x < 0,270 or x > 0,530
 y < – 2,3172 x2  + 2,3653 x – 0,2199  or  y > – 2,3172 x2  + 
2,3653 x – 0,1595 Use in Dry  © 2017 LIFX (LIFI LABS INC.)  
Locations only All rights reserved.
For indoor  
use only
LIFI LABS INC. is the exclusive owner of rights and interests in 
and to the mark LIFX, the LIFX logo and The light bulb reinvented.
Covered by patents: www.lifx.com/patents LIFX Z