500/600 Series Owner's Manual P.S. Don’t miss out on your exclusive benefits! Register your 
Roomba online right now at www.irobot.com/register. Dear iRobot Roomba Owner,
Thank you for purchasing an iRobot Roomba vacuum cleaning 
robot. You’ve joined the millions of people who clean with robots - 
the smarter way to get it done.  
Please take a few moments to read this manual and get acquainted 
with your Roomba, to get the best performance from your robot. 
If you have any questions, visit our website at www.irobot.com for 
more information. 
 
Register your robot to instantly activate your warranty and enjoy 
these exclusive benefits: 
 
• Take advantage of iRobot’s award-winning customer service 
   Get support tailored to your specific robot, including answers 
   to questions, maintenance tips, video demos, live chat and 
   more. 
 
• Get product updates and other valuable information 
   Be among the first to find out about new robots, exclusive  
   discounts and special promotions. 
 
When you register, you can also tell us about your experience 
with your Roomba; iRobot listens to our customers and makes 
enhancements to our robots based on your valued feedback. We’d 
love to hear from you!
Register your robot right now at www.irobot.com/register. 
 
On behalf of the entire team, thank you for choosing iRobot; we 
appreciate your business, feedback and loyalty.
Here’s to robots that make a difference! 
 
Yours for less chores and more life,
 
Colin Angle 
Chairman, CEO and Co-Founder 
iRobot Corporation
P.S. Don’t miss out on your exclusive benefits! Register your 
Roomba online right now at www.irobot.com/register.  
Important Tips
  Before using Roomba the first 
time, you need to activate Roomba 
by removing the battery pull tab. 
Charge Roomba overnight before 
first time use.
Remove battery pull tab
Turning Roomba on and off
•  To turn Roomba ON, press CLEAN once. You will hear a 
beep and the CLEAN button will light.
•  To start a cleaning cycle, press CLEAN again. Roomba will 
start a cleaning cycle.
• To pause Roomba, press CLEAN while Roomba is cleaning. 
• To resume the cleaning cycle, press CLEAN again. 
•  To turn Roomba OFF, press and hold the CLEAN button 
until Roomba’s lights turn OFF. 
For Best Performance
• Remove and clean Roomba’s brushes after every use.
• Empty Roomba’s bin and clean its filter after every use.
•   Use a Virtual Wall® (optional accessory) to keep Roomba cleaning where 
you want it.
• Use your Roomba frequently. 
 
 
Battery Life
To extend Roomba’s battery life and keep Roomba cleaning at peak 
performance:
•  Always keep Roomba plugged in when not in use.
•  Recharge Roomba as soon as possible. Waiting several days to 
recharge Roomba can damage the battery.
•  For storage off the power supply, remove the battery from Roomba and 
store in a cool, dry place.
  •  Blue or black batteries should be stored after Roomba has been 
used.
  •  Yellow batteries should be stored after being fully charged.
  Roomba contains electronic parts. DO NOT submerge Roomba or spray it 
with water. Clean with a dry cloth only. 
4 iRobot Roomba 500 Series Table of Contents
iRobot Roomba Anatomy .............................................6
Cleaning Pattern ...........................................................7
Cleaning Modes ............................................................8
Cleaning System ...........................................................9
Cleaning Bins ..............................................................10
Battery Storage and Charging .............................11-12
Optional Accessories .................................................13
     Virtual Wall®  .....................................................13-14
     Virtual Wall® Lighthouses™ ..............................15-16
     Home Base®  ..........................................................17
     Wiresless Command Center .................................18
     Remote Control .....................................................19
Scheduling Roomba (selected models)  ..................20-21
Regular Maintenance ...........................................22-24
Language Selection Mode (selected models) ................25
Troubleshooting ....................................................26-27
Replaceable Modules ...........................................28-32
Frequently Asked Questions ......................................33
Important Safety Instructions ....................................34
iRobot Customer Care ...............................................35
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 5  
iRobot Roomba Anatomy
Infrared Sensor
Faceplate
Bin Release Button
Power Supply Socket
Bin
Buttons and Lights
(Models 500 - 549) (Models 550 and above)
Scheduling 
Troubleshooting SPOT Button Troubleshooting SPOT Button Interface
Light Light
Dirt Detect™ Dirt Detect™
CLEAN/Power SPOT/DOCK Button  CLEAN/Power
Button (varies by model)   Button DOCK Button (models 550-599)
MAX Button (models 600+)  
Bottom View
Brush 
Cliff Sensor  Contact Points  Bearings
Openings for Home Base  Flexible 
(selected  Brush
models)
Edge-Cleaning 
Main 
Side Brush
Removable Brush
Caster Wheel
End Caps
Right Wheel  Left Wheel 
Module Module Brush 
Guard
Dirt Detect™ 
Sensor
Brush Guard Release Tabs 
6 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
Cleaning Pattern
Roomba is a robot that cleans floors differently than the way most people 
clean their floors. Roomba uses its robot intelligence to efficiently clean 
the whole floor, under and around furniture and along walls. 
Roomba calculates the optimal cleaning path as it cleans and determines 
when to use its various cleaning behaviors:
Spiraling: Roomba uses 
a spiral motion to clean a 
concentrated area. 
Wall Following: Roomba 
uses this technique to 
clean the full perimeter 
of the room and navigate 
around furniture and 
obstacles.
Room Crossing: Roomba 
crisscrosses the room 
to ensure full cleaning 
coverage.
Dirt Detection (selected 
models): When Roomba 
senses dirt, the blue Dirt 
Detect™ light is lit and 
Roomba cleans more 
intensely in that area. 
TIP:  Roomba takes approximately 25 minutes to clean an average room and  
will pass over the same area of the floor multiple times to ensure total  
floor coverage.
TIP:  For most efficient cleaning, clear your floor of clutter and use a Virtual 
Wall to confine Roomba to one room.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 7  
Cleaning Modes
Roomba will clean based on the cleaning mode you select. Roomba has 
three cleaning modes.
Clean Mode (all models)
Roomba automatically calculates the room size and adjusts its cleaning 
time appropriately. 
Spot Mode (all models) 
Roomba will spiral approximately three feet in diameter and then spiral 
back to where it started, intensely cleaning a localized area. 
 
Scheduled Cleaning Mode (Models 550 and above)
When a future cleaning time is programmed, Roomba enters Scheduled 
Cleaning Mode. When scheduled to clean, Roomba will occasionally flash 
its next cleaning time to remind you of its schedule. At the specified time, 
Roomba leaves its Home Base, cleans, and then returns to the Home 
Base to recharge when it’s done.
8 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
Cleaning System
Roomba features a patented three-stage cleaning system. 
Filter
1   Side brush  2   Two counter- 3   Powerful vacuum picks up the 
sweeps along  rotating brushes  remaining fine particles, dirt, and 
edge of walls and  scoop up dirt,  hair. The filter traps dust and 
into corners.    hair, and debris  small particles.  
into the bin.  
 
Floor Surfaces
Roomba works on wood, carpet, tile, vinyl, and linoleum, and adjusts 
automatically to different floor types.
Roomba automatically senses stairs and other cliffs. Roomba might 
stall when confronting rounded edges and might slide over particularly 
slippery surfaces. Extremely dark-colored floors may contribute to 
Roomba’s cliff sensors working less effectively.
Anti-Tangle system
Roomba won’t get stuck on cords, carpet fringe or tassels. When Roomba 
senses it has picked up a cord or tassel, it will automatically stop its main 
brushes or side brush and try to escape. Roomba may make a clicking 
noise when anti-tangle is activated.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 9  
Cleaning Bins
Roomba is compatible with three interchangeable cleaning bins.
 
Aero-VacTM or Original Vacuum Cleaning Bin
The Aero-Vac or Original vacuum cleaning bin should be used for 
everyday cleaning. The dual action, counter-rotating brushes pick up 
debris, while the vacuum sucks up the dirt and dust.
High-Capacity Sweeper Bin 
(optional accessory for all models)
The high-capacity sweeper bin can hold more debris than the vacuum 
cleaning bin. Use this bin when cleaning larger-than-usual amounts of dirt 
and dust, or when cleaning bigger pieces of debris.
Aero-VacTM Vacuum Cleaning Bin Original Vacuum Cleaning Bin
High-Capacity Sweeper Bin
10 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
Battery Storage and Charging
Roomba is powered by a rechargeable battery. Roomba’s battery can last 
for hundreds of cleaning cycles if cared for properly.
Battery Life
To extend the battery life, iRobot recommends always storing Roomba 
plugged in. For more details on how to maintain Roomba’s battery life, 
visit www.irobot.com/support.  
TIP:  Recharge Roomba as soon as possible. Waiting several days to recharge 
Roomba can damage the battery.
  TIP: F or storage off the power supply, remove the battery from Roomba and 
store in a cool, dry place.
Cleaning Time
You should fully charge Roomba’s battery before each cleaning cycle. 
When fully charged, Roomba’s battery will last for at least one full clean 
cycle.  
16-Hour Refresh Charge
If Roomba has been left off the power supply or Home Base for an 
extended period, Roomba will initiate a special 16-hour charge cycle. This 
extensive charge refreshes Roomba’s battery and extends the battery 
life. While charging, Roomba’s “Clean” button will pulse quickly. Note: For 
best results, do not interrupt this Refresh Charge.
TIP:  For best performance, charge Roomba’s battery overnight before using 
Roomba for the first time.  
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 11  
Charging Roomba
Charge Roomba in one of two ways:
Or
Using the Home Base Using the Power Supply Only
TIP:   When Roomba is on the Home Base, always make sure that the Home 
Base power light is on.
Charging Lights
Roomba uses the CLEAN button light to indicate that it is charging. Use 
this chart to determine the status of the battery.
CLEAN button light Battery status
Solid red Battery empty
Amber pulse Charging
Solid green Fully charged
Quick amber pulse 16-hour refresh charge
CLEAN/Power 
Button
12 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
Virtual Wall®  
(optional accessory for selected models)
Virtual Walls create an invisible barrier 
that Roomba will not cross. This invisible 
barrier can be used to confine Roomba 
to a particular room or area, and 
prevent it from getting too close 
to electrical or computer cords, 
delicate objects on the floor, etc. 
The Virtual Walls can be set to block an opening 
up to seven feet long. Note that the width of the Virtual Wall’s 
beam also increases as its length increases, creating a cone-shaped 
area which Roomba cannot pass. The Virtual Wall also creates a halo of 
protection around itself, preventing Roomba from getting too close. 
 
 
 
TIP:  For best performance, place the Virtual Wall on the outside of the 
 
doorway you wish to block. 
 
 
 
Original Virtual Wall
The Virtual Wall requires 2 “D” batteries and 
automatically shuts off after 135 minutes. If the 
power light blinks green, the batteries will soon  
need replacement. Use the slider bar to adjust  
the length of the barrier. A higher range will drain  
the battery faster. 
 
TIP:  Point the iRobot logo towards the opening you would like to block.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 13  
Virtual Wall®  
(continued)
Compact Manual Virtual Wall
A Manual Virtual Wall must be turned on 
by hand at the beginning of the cleaning 
cycle to activate the barrier. A Manual 
Virtual Wall and its power light will shut 
off after 135 minutes. When battery 
levels are low, the Virtual Wall power light will 
blink slowly to indicate that it needs new batteries.
TIP:  Point the arrows on top of the Virtual Wall towards the opening you would 
like to block.
Compact Auto Virtual Wall
When an Auto Virtual Wall is set to “Auto” 
mode, the power light blinks repeatedly  AUTOOFF
to indicate it is on. When battery levels 
are low, the Virtual Wall blinks repeatedly 
twice to indicate that it needs new batteries. 
To save battery power, switch the Auto 
Virtual Wall to “Off.” When in “Auto” mode, the 
batteries should last approximately six months.
TIP:  Point the arrows on top of the Virtual Wall towards the opening you would 
like to block.
Compact Virtual Wall Battery Installation
To open the battery compartment, simply apply pressure on both iRobot 
logos located on either side of the Virtual Wall and pull the bottom out, 
separating the pieces.
Two “C” Alkaline Batteries 
(not included)
Battery 
Compartment
14 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
Virtual Wall® Lighthouses™  
(optional accessory for selected models)
Virtual Wall Lighthouses turn on and off automatically as Roomba is 
turned on and off. When they are on, a light illuminates on the top of the 
Virtual Wall Lighthouse. A Virtual Wall Lighthouse can be used in two 
modes, either in Lighthouse mode or Virtual Wall mode, set by the Mode 
Selector. 
Power Light
Mode Selector
Lighthouse Two “C” Alkaline 
Range Selector Virtual Wall Batteries
048--”37+”” 10.3-51m-.35+mm (not included)
Distance
Lighthouse Mode 
In Lighthouse mode, the Virtual Wall Lighthouse helps Roomba navigate 
around your home and allows Roomba to clean room-to-room. Roomba 
will clean the room it starts in, navigate to the next room, and then clean 
the second room. When Roomba has completed cleaning, it will use the 
Lighthouse to navigate back to the Home Base for recharging.
Lighthouse
Home
Room 1 Room 2
Base
Lighthouse
Start
Roomba
here
With two Virtual Wall 
Room 3
Lighthouses in lighthouse
mode, Roomba will clean 
Room 1 for approximately 
25 minutes, then clean 
Rooms 2 and 3 for  25 
minutes each, and then 
return to the Home Base.
TIP:  When in Lighthouse mode, do not manually move Roomba from room to 
room while it is cleaning.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 15  
Virtual Wall® Lighthouses™ 
(continued)
In Lighthouse mode, place the Virtual Wall Lighthouse in the doorway 
between two rooms with the iRobot logo facing forward.
Place Lighthouse 
in the center of 
the door frame
Virtual Wall Mode 
In Virtual Wall mode, the Lighthouse creates an invisible barrier that 
Roomba will not cross. It automatically turns off when Roomba turns off. 
In Virtual Wall mode, place the Virtual Wall Lighthouse in the center of 
the door frame. It blocks an opening up to seven feet or longer in three 
increments: 0-3 ft., 4-7 ft., 7+ ft. Use the range selector to adjust the 
length of the barrier. A longer range will drain the battery faster.
Range 
Selector
Distance
TIP:  Avoid placing Virtual Wall Lighthouses too close to each other, the 
Home Base, or furniture that could block the beams. Doing so could 
prevent Roomba from recognizing the Lighthouses and navigating to the 
next room.
TIP:  To conserve battery life, remove the batteries if you are not planning to 
use the Virtual Wall Lighthouse when cleaning. When battery levels are 
low, the Virtual Wall Lighthouse power light will flash repeatedly.
16 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
Home Base® 
(optional accessory for selected models)
Always keep the Home base plugged in.
Original Home Base
When Roomba is on the Home Base, the power and 
docked lights are green to indicate Roomba is charging. 
Compact Home Base
When the Home Base is plugged in, the power light 
blinks to indicate that it is connected to the power 
source. When Roomba connects to the Home Base, the 
power light is solid to indicate that Roomba successfully 
connected to the Home Base. When Roomba is 
charging, Roomba’s “Clean” button pulses amber as 
described in the “Battery Storage and Charging” section 
of this manual. The “Clean” button is a solid green when 
Roomba is completely charged.  
SCALE   1.000
Home Base Location
You should position the Home Base on a hard level surface and in an 
area where Roomba has a clear path to return at the end of a cleaning 
cycle. Locate the Home Base against a wall or other immovable object to 
prevent it from sliding during docking. If Roomba is unable to dock on its 
first attempt, it will try again until it docks successfully. 
Home 
Base
Chair Table
 
Stairs
Area Rug
TIP:  Do not place the Home Base within 4 feet of a stairwell.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 17  
Wireless Command Center  
(optional accessory for selected models)
The Wireless Command Center lets you conveniently control Roomba’s 
functions. You can use it to turn Roomba on and off, schedule Roomba to 
clean, and steer Roomba around  your room.
Troubleshooting 
Light
...
. . .
Battery  
Indicator
SPOT Roomba spirals approximately three feet in diameter and then spirals 
back to where it started, intensely cleaning a local area. 
CLEAN Roomba automatically calculates the room size and adjusts its 
cleaning time appropriately. 
. . . Models  Roomba attempts to dock on the Home Base, if present.
570-599
Models  Roomba enters Max mode and cleans as long as the 
600+ battery allows.
Pairing Roomba with the Wireless Command Center
Wireless Command Centers are set up to control only one Roomba. To pair 
a Wireless Command Center with a Roomba, you need four “AA” batteries 
(not included).
1 Make sure Roomba’s battery is fully charged.
2 Unplug the power supply or remove Roomba from its Home Base.
3 Install three “AA” batteries into the Command Center.
4 Hold down the left drive button while installing the fourth battery.
5 Continue holding the button for 3 seconds or until the days of the 
week lights flash in a sequence from right to left (Saturday to Sunday).
6 Install the battery door and place the Command Center on top of 
Roomba.
7 Press and hold the DAY and MINUTE buttons on the Command Center 
for 2 seconds. The lights on the Command Center will flash to indicate 
the pairing has completed, and Roomba will make a two-tone beep.
8 When the Command Center is powered on from now on, the lights will 
flash in sequence from left to right until Roomba is under control.
18 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
Remote Control 
(optional accessory for selected models)
Directional 
SPOT 
Buttons
Button . . . 
Button
CLEAN/Power 
Button
The Remote Control lets you conveniently control Roomba’s functions. 
You can use it to turn Roomba on and off and steer it around your 
room without bending down. It also gives you remote access to these 
commands: 
SPOT Roomba spirals approximately three 
feet in diameter and then spirals back 
to where it started, intensely cleaning a 
local area. 
CLEAN Roomba automatically calculates the 
. . .
room size and adjusts its cleaning time 
appropriately. 
. . . Models 500-519 Roomba enters Spot 
mode.
Models 520-599 Roomba attempts to 
dock on the Home 
Base, if present.
Models 600+ Roomba enters Max 
mode and cleans as 
long as the battery 
allows.
Before using your remote for the first time, install 2 AA batteries (not 
included). 
TIP:  Check that there is a direct line of sight from the Remote Control to 
Roomba and that the remote is pointed at Roomba.
  The Remote Control, Virtual Walls and Home Base operate using an invisible 
infrared beam. If they are all used in the same area, Roomba may see 
multiple infrared signals and will not operate. The Remote WILL NOT work 
when Roomba is near Virtual Walls.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 19  
Scheduling Roomba 
(Models 550 and above)
Setting the Time
You must set the time before scheduling Roomba to clean.
1   Press and hold CLOCK.
  While holding CLOCK, use the DAY, HOUR, 
2
and MINUTE buttons to set the correct time.
3   Release CLOCK. Roomba will beep to 
indicate that the time has been set. 
Setting a Schedule
You can schedule Roomba to clean once per day, up to seven times 
per week. You must set the time before setting a schedule.
To set a schedule:
1    Press and hold SCHEDULE.
  While holding SCHEDULE, use the DAY, 
2
HOUR, and MINUTE buttons to set the 
schedule.
3   Release SCHEDULE. Roomba will beep to 
indicate that the schedule has been set. 
Viewing and Deleting Schedules
To view Roomba’s scheduled cleaning times: 
1   Press and hold SCHEDULE.
  While holding SCHEDULE, press the DAY 
2
button to cycle through Roomba’s scheduled        
cleaning times.
3   Release SCHEDULE.
20 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
To Delete a Schedule
1    Press and hold SCHEDULE.
  While holding SCHEDULE, press the DAY 
2
button to cycle through Roomba’s scheduled 
cleaning times.
3   When Roomba is displaying the scheduled 
cleaning time you’d like to delete, press and 
hold DAY to delete the scheduled cleaning 
time. 
4   Release SCHEDULE.
To Change a Schedule
1   Press and hold SCHEDULE.
  While holding SCHEDULE, press the DAY 
2
button to cycle through Roomba’s scheduled 
cleaning times.
3   When Roomba is displaying the scheduled 
cleaning time you’d like to change, press the 
HOUR and MINUTE buttons to change the 
scheduled cleaning time. 
4   Release SCHEDULE.  Roomba will beep to 
confirm that the schedule has been changed.
TIP:  Roomba’s clock can be viewed in either the 12 hour (AM/PM) format or 
the 24 hour format. To toggle between the two views, press and hold the 
DAY and MINUTE buttons simultaneously for 3 seconds until Roomba 
beeps and the clock briefly illuminates, indicating the clock format has 
been switched. Roomba’s clock will switch back to the default 12 hour 
(AM/PM) format when Roomba’s battery is disconnected or significantly 
discharged.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 21  
Regular Maintenance
To keep Roomba running at peak performance, it is recommended that 
you perform the following maintenance regularly: 
1   Remove and empty Roomba’s bin after each use
Press button and 
pull to remove bin.
 
 
2   Clean Roomba’s filter 
Aero-Vac Vacuum Bin Original Vacuum Bin
A. Push down and remove to clean filter* A. Clean or replace filter*
Empty bin
Empty bin
B. Clean filter compartment
*Replace filter every 2 months
Visit www.irobot.com/support for information on keeping Roomba running at peak 
performance.
TIP:  Bin emptying and brush cleaning should be done after every cleaning cycle. 
Regularly pull out and clean Roomba’s front wheel.
TIP:  If you notice Roomba picking up less debris from your floor, empty the bin 
and clean the brushes.  
22 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
3   Clean Roomba’s brushes
A.  Remove brush guard by lifting both  B.  Remove and clean Roomba’s 
yellow tabs. brushes.
Brush 
Bearings 
Brush Caps
TIP:  When maintaining Roomba, look for the yellow parts. These parts are 
designed to be removed and cleaned every time you empty Roomba’s bin.
C.  Remove and clean hair and dirt from  D.  Remove and clean Roomba’s brush 
Roomba’s yellow brush bearings. caps.
Bearings
Alignment Feature
E.  Use the included cleaning tool to 
easily remove hair from Roomba’s 
bristle brush by pulling it over the 
brush. 
  Excessive build up of hair can permanently damage Roomba. 
Remove brushes and inspect brush bearings regularly.
  Do not attempt to run Roomba without the bearings. If you 
misplace Roomba’s brush bearings, contact iRobot Customer Care 
for replacement bearings. 
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 23  
Clean Roomba’s front wheel
1   Pull firmly on Roomba’s front  Wheel
wheel to remove it from the 
robot.  Axle
2   Remove debris from inside the 
Housing
front wheel cavity. 
3   Remove the front wheel from 
its housing and clear any hair 
wrapped around the axle. Push 
firmly on the wheel axle to 
remove it completely from the 
wheel. 
4  Wipe the wheel clean. 
5   Re-install the wheel into the housing, and the module into the robot. 
    Front wheels clogged with hair and debris could result in floor 
damage.
Clean Roomba’s cliff sensors 
1  Wipe all four cliff sensors with a clean, dry cloth. 
Cliff Sensor 
Openings
24 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
Language Selection Mode
(selected models)
Roomba 500 Series can provide troubleshooting messages in English, 
French, German, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, 
Finnish, Polish, Russian, Portuguese, Japanese, Korean and Chinese.
Roomba’s default language is English.
Setting the Language
1   Turn OFF Roomba. (Press and hold  
       CLEAN until Roomba’s lights turn off.)
  Press and hold CLEAN until Roomba beeps 
2
and says the currently selected language.
3   Release CLEAN. Roomba is now in Language 
Selection Mode. 
4   Press CLEAN repeatedly until you hear the 
desired language.
5   Press and hold CLEAN to turn OFF Roomba 
and confirm the language choice.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 25  
Troubleshooting
Roomba will tell you something is wrong with a two-tone “uh-oh” sound 
followed by a series of beeps or a narrated voice. The troubleshooting 
light will also blink. Refer to the chart below to resolve Roomba’s problem. 
If the problem is not resolved, visit www.irobot.com/support. 
Tip : To repeat Roomba's error message, press the "clean" button.
Runtime Errors
Roomba  Or Roomba says…. Likely cause What to do
beeps...
Roomba is stuck with a  Ensure Roomba’s wheels 
1 beep Error 1 ... wheel hanging down or  are firmly on the floor. Start 
Roomba is stuck.  Roomba in a new location. 
Roomba’s main  Remove and clean 
2 beeps Error 2 ...
brushes cannot turn.  Roomba’s brushes. 
Clean hair and debris from 
Roomba’s side wheels. Push 
Roomba’s side wheel is  them in and out and confirm 
5 beeps Error 5 ...
stuck.  that they both turn freely. 
Start Roomba in a new 
location.
Roomba’s cliff sensors  Wipe Roomba’s cliff sensors 
6 beeps Error 6 ... are dirty or Roomba is  with a dry cloth. Start 
stuck hanging over a cliff.  Roomba in a new location.
Clean Roomba’s side wheels 
of hair and debris. Push 
Roomba’s side wheel is  them in and out and confirm 
7 beeps Error 7 ...
stuck. that they both turn freely. 
Start Roomba in a new 
location.
Remove and clean hair and 
Roomba’s front wheel 
debris from Roomba’s front 
8 beeps is stuck or Roomba is 
wheel. Start Roomba in a 
stuck. 
new location.
Briskly tap Roomba’s 
Roomba’s bumper is  bumper 10-20 times to 
9 beeps Error 9 ... compressed or the  dislodge any debris that 
bumper sensor is dirty. may be trapped under the 
bumper. 
If Roomba is circling in 
place, clean Roomba’s 
side wheels of hair and 
Roomba’s side wheel  debris. Push them in and 
is stuck or its bumper  out and confirm that they 
Error 10 ...
is not registering  both turn. If not circling in 
obstacles. place, Roomba may be in 
an extremely large room. 
Use a Virtual Wall to create a 
smaller cleaning area.
26 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
Runtime Errors (continued)
Roomba  Roomba says…. Likely cause What to do
beeps...
Tap Roomba’s bumper to confirm 
it is working properly. If this error 
Roomba’s bumper is not 
occurs when Roomba is circling, 
registering obstacles. 
11 beeps clean wheels of hair and debris. 
Roomba may be stuck in 
If Roomba is in an extremely 
one place. 
large room, use a Virtual Wall to 
create a smaller cleaning area.
A cliff sensor is dirty or  Inspect and clean Roomba’s cliff 
12 beeps
broken.  sensors.
Plug Roomba into the power 
Please charge  Roomba’s battery is 
supply or place on the Home 
Roomba. discharged.
base to charge.
Please inspect and  Wipe cliff sensors with a dry 
Roomba’s cliff sensors 
clean Roomba’s cliff  cloth. Ensure Roomba is starting 
are dirty. 
sensors. with all wheels firmly on the floor.
Clean wheels of hair and debris. 
Please inspect and  Push them in and out and 
Roomba’s side wheel is 
clean Roomba’s  confirm that they turn freely. 
stuck.
wheels. Ensure Roomba is starting with 
all wheels firmly on the floor.
Please remove and 
Roomba’s main  Remove and clean Roomba’s 
clean Roomba’s 
brushes cannot turn.  brushes.
brushes.
Charging Errors (while charging) 
Roomba  Roomba  Roomba  Likely cause What to do
blinks... displays...  says….
(models 550+)
Confirm that Roomba’s  
battery pull-tab is removed. 
Charging  Roomba’s battery is not 
1 blink - Remove the bottom cover of 
Error 1. connected. 
Roomba to remove and re-
install Roomba’s battery. 
Let Roomba cool down for 
Charging  Roomba has a 
2 blinks Err2 at least one hour and try 
Error 2. charging error.
charging again.
Reset Roomba’s software 
Charging  Roomba has a 
3 blinks Err3 (refer to tip below) and try 
Error 3. charging error. 
charging again.
Reset Roomba’s software 
Charging  Roomba has a 
5 blinks Err5 (refer to tip below) and try 
Error 5. charging error.
charging again.
Let Roomba cool down for 
Charging  Roomba’s battery is too 
6 blinks Err6 at least one hour and try 
Error 6. warm.
charging again.
Let Roomba cool down for 
Charging  Roomba’s battery is 
7 blinks Err7 at least one hour and try 
Error 7. not cooling.
charging again.
TIP:  To reset Roomba’s software, simultaneously hold down the two 
buttons above and below CLEAN for 10 seconds. This will clear 
all scheduled cleaning times, reset the clock and may resolve 
some software issues.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 27  
Replaceable Modules
Roomba has a number of modules that can be replaced, including its 
drive wheels, side brush, main cleaning head, vacuum bin, caster wheel, 
and battery.
To access Roomba’s replaceable modules, remove the bottom cover of 
Roomba by removing the four screws that hold down the bottom cover 
and the screw that holds the spinning side brush.
Side brush with screw
Front caster wheel
Caster housing
Bottom cover
Battery
Cleaning head module
Right side wheel module
Left side wheel module
Side brush module
Bin module
Chassis
Replaceable faceplate
28 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
Faceplate Removal 
(models 500 and above)
Follow these instructions to remove and install Roomba’s faceplate.
1   Remove Roomba’s bin.
 
 
 
2   Remove Roomba’s faceplate by pulling up from the bin. The 
faceplate is secured in several places.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 29  
3   Install Roomba’s faceplate by inserting the tabs into the appropriate 
slots, and then pushing down firmly on the inside and outsides edges 
of the faceplate.
 
 
4   Reinsert Roomba’s bin.
30 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
Battery Removal 
(models 500 and above)
Follow these instructions to remove and reinstall Roomba’s battery.
1   Remove Roomba’s side brush screw.
 
 
 
2   Remove Roomba’s side brush.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 31  
3   Unscrew the four screws shown below and remove Roomba’s bottom 
cover.
 
 
 
4   Remove Roomba’s battery.
5   Reinstall Roomba’s battery with the iRobot logo facing up.
6   Replace Roomba’s bottom cover and the four screws.
7   Replace Roomba’s side brush and the side brush screw.
32 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
Frequently Asked Questions
Why does Roomba’s Side Brush occasionally spin backwards? 
When caught on items such as carpet tassels or wires, the Side Brush 
may spin slowly or briefly spin backwards to free itself. This may also 
occur on thick or high-pile carpets. If this behavior should occur on hard 
floor surfaces or when no tassels or wires are present, the Side Brush 
should be cleaned. Using a small Philips head screwdriver, first remove 
the screw from the center of the Side Brush. Next remove the Side Brush 
and thoroughly clean any hair or debris that is wrapped around the shaft. 
Then reinstall the Side Brush and Side Brush screw. 
 
Why does Roomba occasionally make a thumping sound? 
When Roomba’s brushes encounter items such as carpet tassels or wires, 
the brushes will briefly reverse direction to get free. This action causes 
a thumping sound that can be heard approximately once per second 
until the brushes are free from obstruction. If Roomba makes a thumping 
sound when no tassels or wires are present, the main brushes should be 
cleaned. 
 
 
Why doesn’t Roomba slow down as it approaches certain 
obstacles? 
Roomba uses its Light Touch Bumper technology to identify walls and 
other obstacles, allowing it to slow down and gently touch the obstacle 
with its bumper before changing direction. Roomba may be less effective 
at sensing and slowing down for extremely dark or black surfaces, or for 
objects that are less than two inches wide.
TIP:  For additional assistance, visit www.irobot.com/support.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 33  
Important Safety Instructions
  CAUTION: DO NOT EXPOSE THE ELECTRONICS OF ROOMBA, 
ITS BATTERY, OR THE POWER SUPPLY. THERE ARE NO USER-
SERVICEABLE PARTS INSIDE. REFER SERVICING TO QUALIFIED 
SERVICE PERSONNEL. PLEASE ENSURE VOLTAGE RATING FOR 
ENCLOSED POWER SUPPLY MATCHES STANDARD OUTLET VOLTAGE.
Always exercise caution when operating your Roomba. To reduce the risk 
of injury or damage, keep these safety precautions in mind when setting 
up, using and maintaining Roomba:
GENERAL SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS
• Read all safety and operating instructions before operating Roomba.
• Retain the safety and operating instructions for future reference.
• Heed all warnings on Roomba, battery, power supply and in owner’s manual.
• Follow all operating and use instructions.
• Refer all non-routine servicing to iRobot.
ROOMBA USE RESTRICTIONS
• Roomba is for indoor use only.
• Roomba is not a toy. Do not sit or stand on this device. Small children and pets should be 
supervised when Roomba is cleaning.
• Clean with a dry cloth only. Do not pour or spray water onto Roomba.
• Do not use this device to pick up anything that is burning or smoking.
• Do not use this device to pick up spills of bleach, paint, or other chemicals, or anything 
wet. 
• Before using this device, pick up objects like clothing, loose papers, pull cords for blinds 
or curtains, power cords, and any fragile objects. If the device passes over a power cord 
and drags it, there is a chance an object could tumble off a table or shelf.
• If the room to be cleaned contains a balcony, a physical barrier should be used to prevent 
access to the balcony and ensure safe operation.
• Always remove the battery before long-term storage or transportation.
• This appliance is not intended for use by persons (including children) with reduced 
physical, sensory or mental capabilities, or lack of experience and knowledge, unless they 
have been given supervision or instruction concerning use of the appliance by a person 
responsible for their safety.
• Children should be supervised to ensure they do not play with the appliance.
ROOMBA BATTERY AND CHARGING
• Charge using a standard outlet only. Product may not be used with any type of power 
converter. Use of other power converters will immediately void the warranty.
• Use only the power supply supplied by the manufacturer to charge this device.
• Do not use a power supply with a damaged cord or plug.
• Charge indoors only.
• Roomba’s power supply may be protected with a surge protector in the event of severe 
electrical storms.
• Never handle the power supply with wet hands.
• Always disconnect Roomba from the power supply before cleaning.
• Please ensure voltage rating for enclosed power supply matches standard outlet voltage.
34 iRobot Roomba 500 Series  
iRobot Customer Care USA 
 
If you have questions or comments about Roomba, please contact iRobot 
before contacting a retailer.  
 
Please visit our web site at www.irobot.com for support tips, frequently 
asked questions, or information about accessories and other iRobot 
products. We would like to hear from you. 
 
Should you still need assistance: 
   •  Visit the iRobot support web site at www.irobot.com/support 
   •  Call our customer care representatives at 877.855.8593  
 
iRobot Customer Care Hours: 
   •  Monday – Friday 9AM – 7PM Eastern Time 
   •  Saturday 9AM – 6PM Eastern Time
iRobot Customer Care International 
 
To contact an international partner near you for sales and technical 
support, visit www.irobot.com/international.
For more detailed information, visit: www.irobot.com 35 Get iRobot accessories at: 
store.irobot.com
© 2009-2010 iRobot Corporation, 8 Crosby Drive, Bedford, MA 01730. All rights reserved.
iRobot, Roomba, Virtual Wall and Home Base are registered trademarks of iRobot Corporation. Dirt Detect and 
Lighthouse are trademarks of iRobot Corporation. [00152.0110.v1] 
U.S. Pat. Nos. D556,961 | 6,594,844 | 6,690,134 | 6,809,490 | 6,883,201 | 6,956,348 | 7,155,308 | 7,173,391 
| 7,196,487 | 7,288,912 | 7,332,890 | 7,388,343 | 7,389,156 | 7,429,843 | 7,430,455 | 7,441,298 | 7,441,298 | 
7,448,113. Additional patents pending.