SmartThings
Hub
A safer, 
smarter home
starts with 
me!
Quick-Start Guide One App + One Hub + 
All Your Things
Creating a safer, smarter home has 
never been easier. Start with the 
SmartThings app and Hub, add your 
favorite products, and control them 
from another room or another country.  
App Hub Things
The free SmartThings The Hub sends Add devices from
app lets you get commands from SmartThings’
important notifications the free app family of sensors or
about what’s to your connected hundreds of other
happening, control things, and sends connected products
things in every room, important alerts from to create a smart
and run your home your things to your home that fits your
from your phone. smartphone. lifestyle. Meet Your 
SmartThings Hub
SmartThings lets you easily control, 
monitor, and secure your home from 
anywhere in the world. At the center of 
it all is the SmartThings Hub.
  The Brain of Your 
Smart Home
Like a live-in translator, the Hub 
wirelessly connects all of the different 
sensors around your home so that they 
can send important information to your 
smartphone, and to each other.
The SmartThings Hub connects to your 
Internet router via the included Ethernet 
cable. The Hub has a ZigBee, Z-Wave, 
and Bluetooth radio, and also supports 
IP-accessible devices–providing 
customers with the widest range of 
supported devices of any smart home 
platform. In addition, the Hub contains 
replaceable batteries that allow it to 
continue operating in the event of a 
power outage.
For a list of products that have been 
tested and verified as compatible, 
please visit 
http://www.smartthings.com/product/
works-with-smartthings/. So Easy Anyone Can Do It
As with all SmartThings devices, the 
Hub requires no wiring or messy 
installation–just a simple setup that 
anyone can do.
Simply plug in the included Ethernet 
cable from your Hub to your Internet 
router, attach the power cord to the 
wall, and then use the free SmartThings 
app to start connecting your devices. 
Easy peasy.
Front
Status Light
Back
Power Reset USB Network
(ethernet) Simple Setup
The SmartThings Hub works best if installed in a 
central location to where your SmartThings will be 
connected. The recommended separation 
distance from the user for this equipment is 7.6 
inches (20 cm).
  •  Connect your SmartThings Hub to your 
Internet router using the included Ethernet  
cable.
  •  Plug in the power adapter to an outlet and 
attach the power connector to the back    
 of the Hub.
  •  Continue setting up your Hub by going to 
www.SmartThings.com/start on your 
smartphone and following the      
 on-screen instructions.
AC Plug
Power Adapter
Network
Connector
Power Connector Battery Backup 
Installation
Disconnect the network cable and power adapter 
or any other connected peripherals before 
installing batteries (4 x AA):
  •  Slide bottom cover off.
  •  Insert 4 AA batteries.
  •  Slide bottom cover on till it snaps in to 
place.
NOTE: Hub does not recharge batteries.
1 2
3 4 Safety Instructions
Disconnect the network cable and power adapter or any other connected 
peripherals if any of the following conditions exist:
  • The power cord or connector is damaged or frayed.
  • You want to clean the Hub (see Important Safety Instructions).
  • The Hub or attached cables are exposed to rain, water/fluids, or excessive 
moisture.
  • The Hub power adapter is damaged or has been dropped and you  
suspect it needs to be serviced. 
Avoid installing the SmartThings  WARNING:  No user-serviceable 
Hub near or inside sources of  parts inside. Refer all servicing 
metal, radio, or electromagnetic  to qualified service personnel.
interference.
IMPORTANT CONSUMER 
Vermeiden Sie die Installation des  INFORMATION: Please read 
SmartThings Hubs in oder in der Nähe von  before activating or using the device.
Metall, Funkantennen, oder anderen 
WARNING: This product contains chemicals 
elektromagnetischen Störsendern
known to the State of California to cause 
Éviter l’installation du Hub SmartThings a à  cancer and reproductive toxicity. For more 
proximité ou a à l’intérieur d’objets  information, please call 1-800-SAMSUNG 
métalliques ou de sources d’interférences  (726-7864).
radioélectriques ou électromagnétiques.
Important Safety Instructions
  • Read, keep, and follow these instructions.
  • Heed all warnings.
  • Do not use this product near water or expose the product to dripping or 
splashing of any water or liquid.
  • Clean only with a dry cloth.
  • Do not install near any heat sources such as radiators, heat registers, 
stoves or other apparatus (including amplifiers) that produce heat.
  • Only use attachments and accessories specified by the manufacturer.
  • Read our Product Usage Guidelines at: http://SmartThings.com/guidelines
This ZigBee Certified Product works with ZigBee networks supporting the Home 
Automation Profile.
Global 2.4 GHz wireless use.
ZigBee® Certified is a registered trademark of the ZigBee Alliance. Correct disposal of batteries in this product
(Waste Electrical & Electronic Equipment)
(Applicable in countries with separate collection systems)
This marking on the product, accessories or literature indicates that 
the product and its electronic accessories (e.g. charger, headset, USB 
cable) should not be disposed of with other household waste.
To prevent possible harm to the environment or human health from 
uncontrolled waste disposal, please separate these items from other types 
of waste and recycle them responsibly to promote the sustainable reuse of 
material resources.
Household users should contact either the retailer where they purchased this 
product, or their local government office, for details of where and how they can 
take these items for environmentally safe recycling.
Business users should contact their supplier and check the terms and 
conditions of the purchase contract. This product and its electronic accessories 
should not be mixed with other commercial wastes for disposal.
(Applicable in countries with separate collection systems)
This marking on the battery, manual or packaging indicates that the batteries in 
this product should not be disposed of with other household waste. Where 
marked, the chemical symbols Hg, Cd or Pb indicate that the battery contains 
mercury, cadmium or lead above the reference levels in EC Directive 2006/66. If 
batteries are not properly disposed of, these substances can cause harm to 
human health or the environment.
To protect natural resources and to promote material reuse, please separate 
batteries from other types of waste and recycle them through your local, free 
battery return system.
Disclaimer 
Some content and services accessible through this device belong to third 
parties and are protected by copyright, patent, trademark and/or other 
intellectual property laws. Such content and services are provided solely for 
your personal non-commercial use. You may not use any content or services in 
a manner that has not been authorised by the content owner or service 
provider.
Without limiting the foregoing, unless expressly authorised by the applicable 
content owner or service provider, you may not modify, copy, republish, upload, 
post, transmit, translate, sell, create derivative works, exploit, or distribute in any 
manner or medium any content or services displayed through this device. Certifications
Hereby, SmartThings Inc. declares that this product is in compliance with the 
essential requirements and other relevant provisions of Directive 1999/5/EC. The 
original Declaration of Conformity may be found at 
smartthings.com/eu/compliance.
Certified under FCC Part 15. Certified in Canada by IC to RSS-210.
This Class B digital apparatus complies with Canadian ICES-003.
Cet appareil numérique de la classe B est conforme à la norme NMB-003 du 
Canada.
SmartThings Hub Model: STH-ETH-200, FCC ID: R3Y-STH-ETH200, 
IC: 10734A-STHETH200, M/N: PGC431-D , 
Contains FCC ID: D87-ZM5304-U, 
IC: 11263A-ZM5304, M/N: ZM5304AU, CE version contains M/N: ZM5304AE.
Tested to Comply With FCC Standards
FOR HOME OR OFFICE USE
Canada Statement 
This device complies with Industry Canada license-exempt RSS standard(s).  
Operation is subject to the following two conditions: (1) this device may not 
cause interference, and (2) this device must accept any interference, including 
interference that may cause undesired operation of the device.
Le present appareil est conforme aux CNR d'Industrie Canada applicables aux 
appareils radio exempts de licence. L’exploitation est aurorisee aux  deux 
conditions suivantes: (1) l’appareil ne doit pas pas produire de brouillage, et (2) 
l’utilisateur de l’appareil doit accepter toute brouillage radioelectrique subi, 
meme si le brouillage est susceptible d’en compromettre le fonctionnement.
Information to the User
Changes or modifications not expressly approved by SmartThings, Inc. could 
void your authority to operate the equipment.
This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class 
B digital device, pursuant to Part 15 of the FCC Rules. These limits are 
designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a 
residential installation. This equipment generates and can radiate radio 
frequency energy and, if not installed and used in accordance with the 
instructions, may cause harmful interference to radio communications.  
However, there is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular 
installation. If this equipment does cause harmful interference to radio or 
television reception, which can be determined by turning the equipment off and 
on, the user is encouraged to try to correct the interference by one or more of 
the following measures:
  • Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna.
  • Increase the separation between equipment and the receiver.
  • Connect the equipment to an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the 
receiver is connected.
  • Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician for help. One (1) Year Limited Warranty
SmartThings, Inc. warrants this product (the “Product”) against defects in materials and/or 
workmanship under normal use for a period of ONE (1) YEAR from the date of purchase by 
the original purchaser (“Warranty Period”). If a defect arises and a valid claim is received 
within the Warranty Period, then as your sole remedy (and SmartThings’ sole liability), 
SmartThings will at its option either 1) repair the defect at no charge, using new or 
refurbished replacement parts, or 2) replace the Product with a new product that is 
functionally equivalent to the original, in each case within 30 days following receipt of the 
returned Product. A replacement product or part, assumes the remaining warranty of the 
original Product. When a Product or part is exchanged, any replacement item becomes 
your property and the replaced Product or part becomes SmartThings’ property.
Obtaining Service: To obtain warranty service, visit support.smartthings.com to speak with 
a service agent or open a service request. Please be prepared to describe the Product that 
needs service and the nature of the problem. A purchase receipt is required. The Product 
must be insured, and shipped freight prepaid and securely packaged. You must contact 
support for a Return Material Authorization Number (“RMA Number”) before shipping any 
Product, and include the RMA Number, a copy of your purchase receipt and a description 
of the problem you are experiencing with the Product. Any claim under this Limited 
Warranty must be submitted to SmartThings before the end of the Warranty Period.
Exclusions: This warranty does not apply to: a) damage caused by failure to follow 
instructions relating to the Product’s use or the installation of components; b) damage 
caused by accident, abuse, misuse, transport, neglect, fire, floods, earthquake or other 
external causes; c) damage caused by service performed by anyone who is not an 
authorized representative of SmartThings; d) accessories used in conjunction with a 
covered Product; e) a Product or part that has been modified to alter functionality or 
capability; f) items intended to be periodically replaced by the purchaser during the normal 
life of the Product, including, without limitation, batteries, bulbs or cables; g) a Product that 
is used commercially or for a commercial purpose, in each case as determined by 
SmartThings.
EXCEPT FOR BODILY INJURY, SMARTTHINGS SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR (I) ANY LOST 
PROFITS, COST OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE PRODUCTS, OR ANY INCIDENTAL 
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR (II) ANY AMOUNTS IN EXCESS OF THE 
PURCHASE PRICE FOR THE PRODUCT, IN EACH CASE WHETHER RESULTING FROM 
THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THIS PRODUCT, OR ARISING OUT OF ANY BREACH 
OF THIS WARRANTY, EVEN IF COMPANY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF 
SUCH DAMAGES. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF 
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION AND 
EXCLUSIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.
TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, SMARTTHINGS DISCLAIMS ANY 
AND ALL STATUTORY OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND 
WARRANTIES AGAINST HIDDEN OR LATENT DEFECTS. IF SMARTTHINGS CANNOT 
LAWFULLY DISCLAIM STATUTORY OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, THEN TO THE EXTENT 
PERMITTED BY LAW, ALL SUCH WARRANTIES SHALL BE LIMITED IN DURATION TO THE 
WARRANTY PERIOD. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN 
IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.
This warranty gives you specific legal rights and you may also have other rights, which vary 
from state to state. To exercise your rights under this warranty, please follow the instructions 
above under the heading “Obtaining Service”, or contact SmartThings at SmartThings, Inc., 
456 University Ave. Suite 200, Palo Alto, CA 94301, USA. 
Samsung is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.