USER MANUAL
5 SERIES
Thank you for purchasing this Samsung product.
To receive more complete service, please register your product at www.samsung.com/register
Model                                                Serial No.                                                Before Reading This User Manual
This TV comes with this user manual and an embedded e-Manual.
Before reading this user manual, review the following:
User  Read this provided user manual to see information 
Manual about product safety, installation, accessories, initial 
configuration, and product specifications.
e-Manual For more information about this TV, read the 
e-Manual embedded in the product.
• To open the e-Manual,
 >   Settings > Support > Open e-Manual
On the website, you can download the user manual and see its contents on your PC or mobile device.
Learning the e-Manual's assistance functions
• Some menu screens cannot be accessed from the e-Manual.
(Search) Select an item from the search results to load the corresponding page.
(Index) Select a keyword to navigate to the relevant page.
(Recent pages) Select a topic from the list of recently viewed topics.
Learning the functions of the buttons that appear on e-Manual 
topic pages
(Try Now) Access the associated menu item and try out the feature directly.
(Link) Access a topic referred to on an e-Manual topic page.
English - 2 Features of your new TV
Home Screen
In Home Screen, you can easily run the apps that have been used previously or frequently. The apps 
can also be moved or deleted in the screen.
e-Manual
Get help from a detailed, on-screen user's manual built into your TV.
Voice Interaction
Access and control menu options and functions using voice commands.
"SMART HUB" "Volume Up" "Help"
English - 3 Warning! Important Safety Instructions
Please read the Safety Instructions before using your TV.
CAUTION Class II product: This symbol indicates 
that a safety connection to electrical 
RISK OF ELECTRIC SHOCK. DO NOT OPEN. earth (ground) is not required.
CAUTION: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF ELECTRIC 
SHOCK, DO NOT REMOVE COVER (OR BACK). THERE  AC voltage: Rated voltage marked with 
ARE NO USER SERVICEABLE PARTS INSIDE. REFER  this symbol is AC voltage.
ALL SERVICING TO QUALIFIED PERSONNEL.
This symbol indicates that high voltage 
is present inside. It is dangerous to make  DC voltage: Rated voltage marked with 
any kind of contact with any internal part  this symbol is DC voltage.
of this product.
Caution. Consult instructions for use: This 
This symbol indicates that this product 
symbol instructs the user to consult the 
has included important literature 
user manual for further safety related 
concerning operation and maintenance.
information.
• The slots and openings in the cabinet and in the back or bottom are provided for necessary ventilation. To ensure 
reliable operation of this apparatus and to protect it from overheating, these slots and openings must never be 
blocked or covered.
–  Do not place this apparatus in a confined space, such as a bookcase or built-in cabinet, unless proper 
ventilation is provided.
–  Do not place this apparatus near or over a radiator or heat register, or where it is exposed to direct sunlight.
–  Do not place vessels (vases etc.) containing water on this apparatus, as this can result in a fire or electric 
shock.
• Do not expose this apparatus to rain or place it near water (near a bathtub, washbowl, kitchen sink, or laundry 
tub, in a wet basement, or near a swimming pool, etc.). If this apparatus accidentally gets wet, unplug it and 
contact an authorised dealer immediately.
• This apparatus uses batteries. In your community, there might be environmental regulations that require you to 
dispose of these batteries properly. Please contact your local authorities for disposal or recycling information.
• Do not overload wall outlets, extension cords, or adaptors beyond their capacity, since this can result in fire or 
electric shock.
• Power-supply cords should be placed so that they are not likely to be walked on or pinched by items placed upon 
or against them. Pay particular attention to cords at the plug end, at wall outlets, and at the point where they 
exit from the appliance.
• To protect this apparatus from a lightning storm, or when left unattended and unused for long periods of time, 
unplug it from the wall outlet and disconnect the antenna or cable system. This will prevent damage to the set 
due to lightning and power line surges.
• Before connecting the AC power cord to the DC adaptor outlet, make sure that the voltage designation of the DC 
adaptor corresponds to the local electrical supply.
• Never insert anything metallic into the open parts of this apparatus. This may cause a danger of electric shock.
English - 4 • To avoid electric shock, never touch the inside of this apparatus. Only a qualified technician should open this 
apparatus.
• Be sure to plug in the power cord until it is firmly seated. When unplugging the power cord from a wall outlet, 
always pull on the power cord's plug. Never unplug it by pulling on the power cord. Do not touch the power cord 
with wet hands.
• If this apparatus does not operate normally - in particular, if there are any unusual sounds or smells coming from 
it - unplug it immediately and contact an authorised dealer or service centre.
• Be sure to pull the power plug out of the outlet if the TV is to remain unused or if you are to leave the house for 
an extended period of time (especially when children, elderly, or disabled people will be left alone in the house).
–  Accumulated dust can cause an electric shock, an electric leakage, or a fire by causing the power cord to 
generate sparks and heat or by causing the insulation to deteriorate.
• Be sure to contact an authorised Samsung service centre for information if you intend to install your TV in a 
location with heavy dust, high or low temperatures, high humidity, chemical substances, or where it will operate 
24 hours a day such as in an airport, a train station, etc. Failure to do so may lead to serious damage to your TV.
• Use only a properly grounded plug and wall outlet.
–  An improper ground may cause electric shock or equipment damage. (Class l Equipment only.)
• To turn off this apparatus completely, disconnect it from the wall outlet. To ensure you can unplug this apparatus 
quickly if necessary, make sure that the wall outlet and power plug are readily accessible.
• Store the accessories (batteries, etc.) in a location safely out of the reach of children.
• Do not drop or strike the product. If the product is damaged, disconnect the power cord and contact a Samsung 
service centre.
• To clean this apparatus, unplug the power cord from the wall outlet and wipe the product with a soft, dry cloth. 
Do not use any chemicals such as wax, benzene, alcohol, thinners, insecticide, aerial fresheners, lubricants, or 
detergents. These chemicals can damage the appearance of the TV or erase the printing on the product.
• Do not expose this apparatus to dripping or splashing.
• Do not dispose of batteries in a fire.
• Do not short-circuit, disassemble, or overheat the batteries.
• There is danger of an explosion if you replace the batteries used in the remote with the wrong type of battery. 
Replace only with the same or equivalent type.
* The figures and illustrations in this User Manual are provided for reference only and may differ from the actual 
product appearance. The product design and specifications may change without notice. CIS languages (Russian, 
Ukrainian, Kazakhs) are not available for this product, since this is manufactured for customers in the EU region.
English - 5 Contents
Before Reading This User Manual   ----------------------------------------------------------------  2
Features of your new TV   ----------------------------------------------------------------  3
Warning! Important Safety Instructions   ----------------------------------------------------------------  4
01  What's in the Box?
02  Assembling the TV
Attaching the TV to the Stand   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 10
Mounting the TV on a wall   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 10
Providing proper ventilation for your TV   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 12
Safety Precaution: Securing the TV  
to the wall to prevent falling   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 13
Arranging the cables with the cable guide   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 14
03  The TV Controller
Using the TV Controller   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 15
The Standard Remote Control   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 16
The Samsung Smart Remote   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 17
Installing batteries into the  
Samsung Smart Remote   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 19
About the Samsung Smart Remote   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 19
Controlling External Devices with the TV Remote  
- Using the Universal Remote   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 21
04  Performing the initial setup
Initial setup   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 22
05  Connections
Connecting devices to your TV   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 23
Connecting to the Internet   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 24
Connecting to a COMMON INTERFACE slot  
(Your TV viewing Card Slot)   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 25
English - 6 06  Selecting Connected Devices
Changing the input signal   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 26
Editing external devices   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 26
Using additional functions   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 26
07  Troubleshooting and Maintenance
Troubleshooting   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 27
What is Remote Support?   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 29
Eco Sensor and screen brightness   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 30
Caring for the TV   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 30
08  Specifications and Other Information
Specifications   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 31
Environmental Considerations   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 32
Decreasing power consumption   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 32
Licences   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 32
Still image warning   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 33
Warranty Card   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 36
WARRANTY CONDITIONS   ---------------------------------------------------------------- 36
English - 7 01  What's in the Box?
Make sure the following items are included with your TV. If any items are missing, contact your 
dealer.
Samsung Smart Remote & Batteries (AA x 2) Remote Control & Batteries (AAA x 2)
4EA
Warranty Card / 
User Manual TV Power Cable Wall Mount Adapter
Regulatory Guide
COMPONENT IN / AV 
CI Card Adapter Cable Guide
IN Adapter
• The items’ colours and shapes may vary depending on the models.
• Cables not included can be purchased separately.
• Check for any accessories hidden behind or in the packing materials when opening the box.
English - 8 An administration fee may be charged in the following situations:
(a) An engineer is called out at your request, but there will be no defect with the product (i.e., 
where the user manual has not been read).
(b) You bring the unit to a repair centre, but there will be no defect identified the product (i.e., 
where the user manual has not been read).
You will be informed of the administration fee amount before a technician visits.
Warning: Screens can be damaged from direct 
Do Not Touch 
pressure when handled incorrectly. We recommend 
This Screen!
lifting the TV at the edges, as shown.
English - 9 02  Assembling the TV
Attaching the TV to the Stand
4EA
Make sure you have all the accessories shown, and that you assemble the stand following the
provided assembly instructions.
Mounting the TV on a wall
If you mount this TV on a wall, follow the instructions exactly as set out by the 
manufacturer. Unless it is correctly mounted, the TV may slide or fall and cause serious 
injury to a child or adult and serious damage to the TV.
For models providing wall mount adapters, install them as shown in the figure below before 
installing the wall mount kit.
• Refer to the installation manual included with the Samsung wall mount kit.
Wall mount Adapter
Wall 
TV
mount 
bracket
C
Wall mount Adapter
Wall  TV
mount 
bracket
C
English - 10 • Samsung Electronics is not responsible for any damage to the product or injury to yourself or 
others if you choose to install the wall mount on your own.
• You can install your wall mount on a solid wall perpendicular to the floor. Before attaching the 
wall mount to surfaces other than plaster board, contact your nearest dealer for additional 
information. If you install the TV on a ceiling or slanted wall, it may fall and result in severe 
personal injury.
• Standard dimensions for wall mount kits are shown in the table below.
• If you are installing a third-party wall mount, note that the length of the screws you can use to 
attach the TV to the wall mount is shown in column C in the table below.
• When installing a wall mount kit, we recommend you fasten all four VESA screws.
• If you want to install a wall mount kit that attaches to the wall using two top screws only, be sure 
to use a Samsung wall mount kit that supports this type of installation. (You may not be able to 
purchase this type of wall mount kit, depending on the geographical region.)
VESA screw hole 
TV size in 
specs (A * B) in  C (mm) Standard Screw Quantity
inches
millimetres
32 100 x 100 M4
43
200 x 200 43 ~ 45 4
49 M8
55 400 x 400
Do not install your wall mount kit while your TV is turned on. This may result in personal 
injury from electric shock.
• Do not use screws that are longer than the standard dimension or do not comply with the VESA 
standard screw specifications. Screws that are too long may cause damage to the inside of the 
TV set.
• For wall mounts that do not comply with the VESA standard screw specifications, the length of 
the screws may differ depending on the wall mount specifications.
• Do not fasten the screws too firmly. This may damage the product or cause the product to fall, 
leading to personal injury. Samsung is not liable for these kinds of accidents.
• Samsung is not liable for product damage or personal injury when a non-VESA or non-specified 
wall mount is used or when the consumer fails to follow the product installation instructions.
• Do not mount the TV at more than a 15 degree tilt.
• Always have two people mount the TV onto a wall.
English - 11 Providing proper ventilation for your TV
When you install your TV, maintain a distance of at least 10 cm between the TV and other objects 
(walls, cabinet sides, etc.) to ensure proper ventilation. Failing to maintain proper ventilation may 
result in a fire or a problem with the product caused by an increase in its internal temperature.
When you install your TV with a stand or a wall mount, we strongly recommend you use parts 
provided by Samsung Electronics only. Using parts provided by another manufacturer may cause 
difficulties with the product or result in injury caused by the product falling.
Installation with a stand Installation with a wall mount
10 cm 10 cm
10 cm 10 cm 10 cm 10 cm
10 cm
Other Cautions
• The actual appearance of the TV may differ from the images in this manual, depending on the 
model.
• Be careful when you touch the TV. Some parts can be somewhat hot.
English - 12 Safety Precaution: Securing the TV to the wall to prevent falling
Caution: Pulling, pushing, or climbing on the TV may cause the TV to fall. In 
particular, ensure your children do not hang on or destabilise the TV. This action 
may cause the TV to tip over, causing serious injuries or death. Follow all safety 
precautions provided in the Safety Flyer included with your TV. For added 
stability and safety, you can purchase and install the anti-fall device as described 
below.
WARNING: Never place a television set in an unstable location. The television set may fall, 
causing serious personal injury or death. Many injuries, particularly to children, can be 
avoided by taking simple precautions such as
• Using cabinets or stands recommended by the manufacturer of the television set.
• Only using furniture that can safely support the television set.
• Ensuring the television set is not overhanging the edge of the supporting furniture.
• Not placing the television set on tall furniture (for example, cupboards or bookcases) 
without anchoring both the furniture and the television set to a suitable support.
• Not placing the television set on cloth or other materials that may be located between 
the television set and supporting furniture.
• Educating children about the dangers of climbing on furniture to reach the television 
set or its controls.
If you are retaining and relocating the television set that you are replacing with this new 
set, you should apply the same precautions to the old set.
English - 13 Preventing the TV from falling
1. Using the appropriate screws, firmly fasten a set of brackets 
to the wall. Confirm that the screws are firmly attached to the 
wall.
–  You may need additional material such as wall anchors 
depending on the type of wall.
2. Using the appropriately sized screws, firmly fasten a set of 
brackets to the TV.
–  For the screw specifications, refer to the standard screw 
part in the table under "Mounting the TV on a wall".
3. Connect the brackets fixed to the TV and the brackets fixed 
to the wall with a durable, heavy-duty string, and then tie the 
string tightly.
–  Install the TV near the wall so that it does not fall 
backwards.
–  Connect the string so that the brackets fixed to the wall 
are at the same height as or lower than the brackets fixed 
to the TV.
Arranging the cables with the cable guide
English - 14 03  The TV Controller
Using the TV Controller
You can turn on the TV with the TV Controller button at the bottom of the TV, and then use the 
Control Menu. The Control menu appears when the TV Controller is pressed while the TV is On. For 
more information about its usage, refer to the figure below.
Control menu
: Power off : Volume Up
: Channel Up : Volume Down
: Channel Down : Source
TV Controller / Remote control 
sensor
Press: Move
Press & Hold: Select
The TV Controller is placed at the 
bottom of the TV.
English - 15 The Standard Remote Control
Learn where the function buttons are on your remote, such as: SOURCE, TTX/MIX, PRE-CH, 
z, CH LIST, SETTINGS, REC, INFO, RETURN and EXIT.
• This remote control has Braille points on the Power, Channel, Volume, and Enter buttons and can 
be used by visually impaired persons.
• Your TV also comes with a Samsung Smart Remote. For more information about the Samsung 
Smart Remote, refer to page 17.
P (Power) Number
Turns the TV on and off. Gives direct access to channels.
SOURCE TTX/MIX
Displays and selects available video  Alternately selects Teletext ON, 
sources. Double, Mix or OFF.
y
PRE-CH
Adjusts the volume.
Returns to the previous channel.
MUTE REC
Turns the sound on/off. Records whatever you are currently 
watching.
z
• This function is not available in 
Changes the current channel.
specific geographical areas.
CH LIST
INFO
Launches the Channel List.
Displays information about the 
SETTINGS current programme or content.
Sets the Quick Settings the menu on 
 (Enter)
the Settings of the home screen.
Selects or runs a focused item.
 (Smart Hub)
u d l r
Launches Home Screen.
Moves the cursor, selects the on-
GUIDE screen menu items, and changes the 
Displays the Electronic Programme  values seen on the TV's menu.
Guide (EPG).
RETURN
PIC SIZE
Returns to the previous menu or 
Changes the picture size.
channel.
PICTURE
EXIT
Changes the picture mode.
Exits the menu.
AD/SUBT. A, B, C, D
Displays the Accessibility Shortcuts. Use these buttons according to the 
directions on the TV screen.
´
π ∆ ³ µ
Stops playing content.
Use these buttons with specific 
features. Use these buttons 
according to the directions on the TV 
screen.
• The button names above may be differ from the actual names.
English - 16 The Samsung Smart Remote
• Colours and shape may vary depending on the model.
• For more information about Samsung Smart Remote, see the e-Manual chapter, "Remote 
Control and Peripherals > About the Samsung Smart Remote."
 (Power)
 (Voice Interaction)
Press to turn the TV on or off.
Runs Voice Interaction. 
Press the button, say a 
voice command, and then 
release the button to run 
 (Number pad)
Voice Interaction. When 
When pressed, a number strip 
pressed once, the guide to 
appears on the bottom of the 
Voice Interaction appears.
screen. Select numbers and 
then select Done to enter a   4 Colour buttons
numeric value. Use to change  Use these coloured buttons 
the channel, enter a PIN, enter  to access additional options 
a ZIP code, etc. specific to the feature in use.
• When pressed for 1 second 
Select
or more, the TTX menu 
Selects or runs a focused 
appears.
item. When pressed while 
Directional pad (up/down/ you are watching content, 
left/ right) detailed programme 
Moves the focus and changes  information appears. When 
the values seen on the TV's  pressed again, you can select 
menu. or run any of the functions 
displayed.
 (Return)
VOL (Volume)
Returns to the previous menu. 
Move the button up or 
When pressed for 1 second or 
down to adjust the volume. 
more, the running function 
To mute the sound, press 
is terminated. When pressed 
the button. When pressed 
while you are watching a 
for 1 second or more, the 
programme, the previous 
Accessibility Shortcuts menu 
channel appears.
appears.
 (Play/pause)
CH (Channel)
When pressed, the playback 
Move the button up or down 
controls appear. Using these 
to change the channel. To see 
controls, you can control the 
the Guide screen, press the 
media content that is playing.
button.
 (Smart Hub) • When pressed for 1 second 
Returns to the Home Screen. or more, the Channel List 
screen appears.
English - 17 Installing batteries into the remote control (Battery size: AAA)
Match the polarities of the batteries to the symbols on the battery compartment.
1
2
3
• The colour and shape of the remote may vary depending on the model.
• Use the remote control within 7 m of the TV.
• Bright lights may affect the performance of the remote control. Avoid using the remote control 
near special fluorescent lights or neon signs.
1. Gently pull on the battery cover's notch and then remove the cover completely once it comes 
loose.
2. Insert 2 AAA alkaline batteries, making sure to align the positive and negative polarities 
correctly.
3. Place the battery cover on the remote control and insert the cover into the remote control.
4. Slide the battery cover in the order shown so that the cover is completely attached to the 
remote control.
English - 18 Installing batteries into the Samsung Smart Remote
To install the batteries, push the rear cover open in the direction of the arrow, and then insert the 
batteries as shown in the figure. Make sure that the positive and negative ends are facing in the 
correct direction.
• Alkaline batteries are recommended for longer battery life.
About the Samsung Smart Remote
When you start the TV for the first time by pressing the P (Power) button on the Samsung Smart 
Remote, the TV automatically pairs with the Samsung Smart Remote. Once the TV and Samsung 
Smart Remote have paired, you can use the Samsung Smart Remote to operate the TV.
We recommend using Samsung Smart Remote at a distance of less than 6m. A usable distance may 
differ depending on the wireless environmental conditions.
English - 19 Pairing the TV to the Samsung Smart Remote
When you turn on the TV for the first time, the Samsung Smart Remote pairs to the TV 
automatically. If the Samsung Smart Remote does not pair to the TV automatically, point it at the 
remote control sensor of the TV, and then press and hold the buttons labelled   and   as shown 
in the figure on the left simultaneously for 3 seconds or more.
• The Samsung Smart Remote can only be paired to one TV at a time.
English - 20 Controlling External Devices with the TV Remote - Using the 
Universal Remote
 > s Source > Universal Remote
You can control external devices connected to the TV by using the remote control. For this purpose, 
register external devices by following the instructions on the screen.
• You can also use the Anynet+ (HDMI-CEC) function to operate external Samsung devices with 
your TV's remote control without any additional setup. For more information about Anynet+ 
(HDMI-CEC), see the e-Manual.
• Certain external devices connected to the TV may not support the universal remote feature.
• If the external device does not respond after being registered, register it again using its model 
number.
• The TV memorises both the external device and its connection port (HDMI 1, HDMI 2, etc.).
English - 21 04  Performing the initial setup
• The initial setup differs from model to model.
• Turn on the TV using the P button on the remote control or TV controller.
Initial setup
The initial setup dialogue box appears when the TV is first activated. Follow the on-screen 
instructions to finish the initial setup process such as selecting the menu language, scanning 
channels, connecting to the network, and more. During each step, either make a choice or skip 
the step. You can manually perform this process at a later time in the   >   Settings > General > 
Start Setup menu.
• If you connect any external device to HDMI IN (STB) before starting initial setup, the source of 
your live TV signal is set to STB. After finishing with this process, you will not be able to scan all 
channels and stores them in the TV’s memory.
• If you want to connect aerial cable to your TV, select Aerial. In this case, you will be able to scan 
all channels and stores them in the TV’s memory.
English - 22 05  Connections
Connecting devices to your TV
You can connect various external devices using the connectors located at the back of the product. 
Check the connectors and then refer to the Quick Guide for more instructions on supported external 
devices.
For more information about connections, see the e-Manual chapter "Connections."
Make sure you have the correct cable before plugging it in. Illustrations of common plugs and ports 
are shown below.
Cable Plugs Ports
HDMI
USB
Do not plug cables in upside down.
Optical Be sure to check the orientation of 
Warning
the plug before plugging it in.
English - 23 Connecting to the Internet
Connecting the TV to a network gives you access to online services such as the Smart Hub, as well as 
software updates.
• For more information about Smart Hub, see the e-Manual chapter, "Smart Features > Smart 
Hub."
• The shape of the rear panel differs among the models.
Network Connection - Wireless
Connect the TV to the Internet using a standard router or modem.
Wireless IP Router or 
Modem with a DHCP Server
The LAN Port on the Wall
LAN Cable (Not Supplied)
Network Connection - Wired
There are three main ways to connect your TV to your network using cable, depending on your 
network setup. They are illustrated starting below:
The LAN Port on the Wall
LAN Cable (Not Supplied)
• The TV does not support network speeds less than or equal to 10Mbps. 
• Use Cat7 (*STP Type) cable for the connection.
* Shielded Twist Pair
English - 24 Connecting to a COMMON INTERFACE slot (Your TV viewing Card 
Slot)
• Turn the TV off to connect or disconnect a CI card.
Attaching the CI Card Adapter
• A CI Card Adapter that lets the TV use two different CI Cards is available, depending on the 
model.
Attach the adapter as shown.
• To install the CI CARD Adapter, please remove the sticker attached to the TV.
To connect the CI CARD Adapter, follow these steps.
• We recommend attaching the adapter before installing the wall mount, or inserting the “CI or CI+ 
CARD”.
1. Insert the CI CARD Adapter into the two holes on the product 1.
• Please locate the two holes at the back of the TV next to the COMMON INTERFACE port.
2. Connect the CI CARD Adapter to the COMMON INTERFACE port on the product 2.
3. Insert the “CI or CI+ CARD”.
We recommend that you attach the CI Card adapter and insert the CI card (viewing card) 
before you mount the TV on the wall because it may be difficult and dangerous to do this 
when it is on the wall.
English - 25 06  Selecting Connected Devices
Changing the input signal
 > s Source
When you select a connected external device on the Source screen, the output of the selected 
device is displayed on the TV's screen.
• For more information about selecting connected devices, see the e-Manual chapter "Switching 
between external devices connected to the TV"
Editing external devices
You can change the port name for a connected external device or add it to Home Screen.
1. Move the focus to a connected external device.
2. Press the up directional button. Then the following functions can be used. Note that available 
functions may differ with the port type.
• Edit: You can change the port name of an external device for easy identification.
• Add to Home: You can add the port of an external device to the Home Screen for quick 
switching.
• Information: You can view the detailed information about the external devices connected to 
the TV.
Using additional functions
You can use the following features on the Source screen.
• Connection Guide: The guide to device connections
• Universal Remote: The function that lets you register external devices to your Samsung Smart 
Remote and control them using the standard remote control.
English - 26 07  Troubleshooting and Maintenance
Troubleshooting
If the TV seems to have a problem, first review this list of possible problems and solutions. 
Alternatively, review the Troubleshooting Section in the e-Manual. If none of these troubleshooting 
tips apply, please visit “www.samsung.com” and click on Support, or contact the call centre listed on 
the back cover of this manual.
• This TFT LED panel is made up of sub pixels which require sophisticated technology to produce. 
There may be, however, a few bright or dark pixels on the screen. These pixels will have no 
impact on the performance of the product.
• To keep your TV in optimum condition, upgrade to the latest software. Use the Update Now 
or Auto update functions on the TV's menu (  >   Settings > Support > Software Update > 
Update Now or Auto update).
The TV won’t turn on.
• Make sure that the AC power cord is securely plugged in to the TV and the wall outlet.
• Make sure that the wall outlet is working and the power indicator on the TV is lit and glowing a 
solid red.
• Try pressing the Power button on the TV to make sure that the problem is not with the remote 
control. If the TV turns on, refer to “Remote control does not work” below.
There is no picture/video/sound, or a distorted picture/video/sound from an 
external device, or “Weak or No Signal” is displayed on the TV, or you cannot 
find a channel.
• Make sure the connection to the device is correct and that all cables are fully inserted.
• Remove and reconnect all cables connected to the TV and the external devices. Try new cables if 
possible.
• Confirm that the correct input source has been selected (  > Source).
• Perform a TV self diagnosis to determine if the problem is caused by the TV or the device (  > 
 Settings > Support > Self Diagnosis > Start Picture Test or Start Sound Test).
• If the test results are normal, reboot the connected devices by unplugging each device's power 
cord and then plugging it in again. If the issue persists, refer to the connection guide in the user 
manual of the connected device.
• If the TV is not connected to a cable or satellite box, run Auto Tuning to search for channels (  > 
 Settings > Broadcasting > Auto Tuning Settings > Auto Tuning).
–  This function is only available on certain models in specific geographical areas.
English - 27 The remote control does not work.
• Check if the power indicator on the TV blinks when you press the remote's Power button. If it 
does not, replace the remote control's batteries.
• Make sure that the batteries are installed with their poles (+/–) in the correct direction.
• Try pointing the remote directly at the TV from 1.5 ~ 1.8 m away.
• If your TV came with a Samsung Smart Remote (Bluetooth Remote), make sure to pair the 
remote to the TV.
The cable or satellite box remote control doesn’t turn the TV on or off or 
adjust the volume.
• Programme the cable or satellite box remote control to operate the TV. Refer to the cable or 
satellite box user manual for the SAMSUNG TV code.
The TV settings are lost after 5 minutes.
• The TV is in the Retail Mode. Change the Usage Mode in the General Menu to Home Mode (  > 
 Settings > General > System Manager > Usage Mode > Home Mode).
Intermittent Wi-Fi
• Make sure the TV has a network connection (  >   Settings > General > Network > 
Network Status).
• Make sure the Wi-Fi password is entered correctly.
• Check the distance between the TV and the Modem/Router. The distance should not exceed 15.2 
m.
• Reduce interference by not using or turning off wireless devices. Also, verify that there are no 
obstacles between the TV and the Modem/Router. (The Wi-Fi strength can be decreased by 
appliances, cordless phones, stone walls/fireplaces, etc.)
Single story Multi story
Wireless router
Wireless repeater
• Contact your ISP and ask them to reset your network circuit to re-register the Mac addresses of 
your new Modem/Router and the TV.
English - 28 Video App problems (Youtube etc)
• Change the DNS to 8.8.8.8. Select   >   Settings > General > Network > Network Status > 
IP Settings > DNS setting > Enter manually > DNS Server > enter 8.8.8.8 > OK.
• Reset by selecting   >   Settings > Support > Self Diagnosis > Reset Smart Hub.
What is Remote Support?
Samsung Remote Support service offers you one-on-one support with a Samsung Technician who 
can remotely:
• Diagnose your TV
• Adjust the TV settings for you
• Perform a factory reset on your TV
• Install recommended firmware updates
How does Remote Support work?
You can easily have a Samsung Tech service your TV remotely:
1. Call the Samsung Contact Centre and ask for remote support.
2. Open the menu on your TV and go to the Support section.
3. Select Remote Management, then read and agree to the service agreements. When the PIN 
screen appears, provide the PIN number to the agent.
4. The agent will then access your TV.
English - 29 Eco Sensor and screen brightness
Eco Sensor adjusts the brightness of the TV automatically. This feature measures the light in your 
room and optimises the brightness of the TV automatically to reduce power consumption. If you 
want to turn this off, go to   >   Settings > General > Eco Solution > Ambient Light Detection.
• If the screen is too dark while you are watching TV in a dark environment, it may be due to the 
Ambient Light Detection function.
• Do not block the sensor with any object. This can decrease picture brightness.
Caring for the TV
• If a sticker was attached to the TV screen, some debris 
can remain after you remove the sticker. Please clean the 
debris off before watching TV.
• The exterior and screen of the TV can get scratched during 
cleaning. Be sure to wipe the exterior and screen carefully 
using a soft cloth to prevent scratches.
• Do not spray water or any liquid directly onto the TV. Any 
liquid that goes into the product may cause a failure, fire, 
or electric shock.
• To clean the screen, turn off the TV, then gently wipe away 
smudges and fingerprints on the panel with a micro-fiber 
cloth. Clean the body or panel of the TV with a micro-fiber 
cloth dampened with a small amount of water. After that, 
remove the moisture with a dry cloth. While cleaning, do 
not apply strong force to the surface of the panel because 
it can damage the panel. Never use flammable liquids 
(benzene, thinner, etc.) or a cleaning agent. For stubborn 
smudges, spray a small amount of screen cleaner on a 
micro-fiber cloth, and then use the cloth to wipe away the 
smudges.
English - 30 08  Specifications and Other Information
Specifications
Model Name UE32M5500 / UE32M5600 UE43M5500 / UE43M5510 / 
UE43M5600
Display Resolution 1920 x 1080 1920 x 1080
Screen Size
32 inches (80 cm) 43 inches (108 cm)
(Diagonal)
Sound (Output) 20 W 20 W
Stand Swivel (Left / Right) 0˚ 0˚
Dimensions (W x H x D)
Body 730.4 x 433.7 x 55.1 mm 972.9 x 570.0 x 55.1 mm
With stand 730.4 x 487.7 x 207.5 mm 972.9 x 635.0 x 250.7 mm
Weight
Without Stand 5.5 kg 9.5 kg
With Stand 6.2 kg 10.5 kg
Model Name UE49M5500 / UE49M5510 /  UE55M5500 / UE55M5510 / 
UE49M5600 UE55M5600
Display Resolution 1920 x 1080 1920 x 1080
Screen Size
49 inches (123 cm) 55 inches (138 cm)
(Diagonal)
Sound (Output) 20 W 20 W
Stand Swivel (Left / Right) 0˚ 0˚
Dimensions (W x H x D)
Body 1105.8 x 645.0 x 55.1 mm 1241.6 x 721.4 x 55.1 mm
With stand 1105.8 x 710.2 x 293.8 mm 1241.6 x 786.4 x 293.8 mm
Weight
Without Stand 13.0 kg 16.0 kg
With Stand 14.6 kg 17.6 kg
English - 31 Environmental Considerations
Operating Temperature 10°C to 40°C (50°F to 104°F)
Operating Humidity 10% to 80%, non-condensing
Storage Temperature -20°C to 45°C (-4°F to 113°F)
Storage Humidity 5% to 95%, non-condensing
• The design and specifications are subject to change without prior notice.
• For information about the power supply, and more information about power consumption, refer 
to the label-rating attached to the product.
• Typical power consumption is measured according to IEC 62087.
• You can see the label-rating inside of the cover terminal.
Decreasing power consumption
When you shut the TV off, it enters Standby mode. In Standby mode, it continues to draw a small 
amount of power. To decrease power consumption, unplug the power cord when you don't intend to 
use the TV for a long time.
Licences
The terms HDMI and HDMI High-Definition Multimedia Interface, and the HDMI Logo are 
trademarks or registered trademarks of HDMI Licensing LLC in the United States and other 
countries.
English - 32 Still image warning
Avoid displaying still images (such as jpeg picture files), still image elements (such as TV channel 
logos, stock or news crawls at the screen bottom etc.), or programmes in panorama or 4:3 image 
format on the screen. If you constantly display still pictures, it can cause image burn-in on the 
LED screen and affect image quality. To reduce the risk of this adverse effect, please follow the 
recommendations below:
• Avoid displaying the same TV channel for long periods.
• Always try to display any image in full screen. Use the picture format menu of the TV for the best 
possible match.
• Reduce brightness and contrast to avoid the appearance of after-images.
• Use all TV features designed to reduce image retention and screen burn. Refer to the e-Manual 
for details.
Recommendation - EU Only
Hereby, Samsung Electronics, declares that this TV is in compliance with the essential 
requirements and other relevant provisions of Directive 1999/5/EC.
The official Declaration of Conformity may be found at http://www.samsung.com, go to Support 
> Search Product Support and enter the model name.
This equipment may only be used indoors.
This equipment may be operated in all EU countries.
English - 33 Correct Disposal of This Product (Waste Electrical & Electronic Equipment)
(Applicable in countries with separate collection systems)
This marking on the product, accessories or literature indicates that the product and 
its electronic accessories (e.g. charger, headset, USB cable) should not be disposed of 
with other household waste at the end of their working life. To prevent possible harm 
to the environment or human health from uncontrolled waste disposal, please separate 
these items from other types of waste and recycle them responsibly to promote the 
sustainable reuse of material resources.
Household users should contact either the retailer where they purchased this product, or 
their local government office, for details of where and how they can take these items for 
environmentally safe recycling.
Business users should contact their supplier and check the terms and conditions of the 
purchase contract. This product and its electronic accessories should not be mixed with 
other commercial wastes for disposal.
Correct disposal of the batteries in this product
(Applicable in countries with separate collection systems)
This marking on battery, manual or packaging indicates that the batteries in this product 
should not be disposed of with other household waste at the end of their working life. 
Where marked, the chemical symbols Hg, Cd or Pb indicate that the battery contains 
mercury, cadmium or lead above the reference levels in EC Directive 2006/66. If batteries 
are not properly disposed of, these substances can cause harm to human health or the 
environment.
To protect natural resources and to promote material reuse, please separate batteries 
from other types of waste and recycle them through your local, free battery return 
system.
For information on Samsung’s environmental commitments and product-specific regulatory 
obligations, e.g. REACH, WEEE, Batteries, visit http://www.samsung.com/uk/aboutsamsung/
samsungelectronics/corporatecitizenship/data_corner.html
WARNING - TO PREVENT THE SPREAD OF FIRE, KEEP CANDLES OR OTHER ITEMS WITH 
OPEN FLAMES AWAY FROM THIS PRODUCT AT ALL TIMES.
English - 34 • WARNINGS: Image retention, commonly known as screen burn-in, can occur on most types 
of television if the same image is displayed continuously. The most common causes of image 
retention are logos that remain stationary on the TV screen. These logos are common on many 
programmes received via a satellite box. To reduce this risk, avoid displaying still images for 
long durations and lower the brightness or contrast settings to decrease the intensity of the 
picture. Extended viewing of movies and programmes in aspect ratios that are different from the 
aspect ratio of the TV may cause image retention. Always try to avoid black borders at the top or 
bottom by using the zoom function. This will help eliminate the black borders and fit the picture 
to the entire area of the screen. Using a video game console may cause image retention and is 
not recommended. When using a PC input, avoid displaying still images for long durations and 
reduce the brightness or contrast settings to decrease the intensity of the picture.
• IMPORTANT: Image retention issues are not covered by your Samsung® warranty.
English - 35 Warranty Card
United Kingdom Republic of Ireland (EIRE)
This Samsung product is warranted for a period of twelve (12) months from the original date of purchase, against defective materials and 
workmanship. In the event that warranty service is required, you should return the product to the retailer from whom it was purchased. 
However, Samsung Authorised Dealers and Authorised Service Centres in other EC Countries will comply with the warranty on the terms 
issued to purchasers in the country concerned. In case of difficulty, details of our Authorised Service Centres are available from:
Samsung Electronics U.K. Ltd
Samsung Customer Support Centre
Selectapost 38, Sheffield, S97 3FJ
United Kingdom
United Kingdom
Tel : 0330 SAMSUNG (7267864)
www.samsung.com/uk/support
EIRE
Tel : 0818 717100
www.samsung.com/ie/support
WARRANTY CONDITIONS
1.  The warranty is only valid if, when warranty service is required, the warranty card is fully and properly completed and is presented 
with the original invoice or sales slip or confirmation, and the serial number on the product has not been defaced.
2.  Samsung’s obligations are limited to the repair or, at its discretion, replacement of the product or the defective part.
3.  Warranty repairs must be carried out by Authorised Samsung Dealers or Authorised Service Centres. No re-imbursement will be 
made for repairs carried out by non Samsung Dealers and, any such repair work and damage to the products caused by such repair 
work will not be covered by this warranty.
4.  This product is not considered to be defective in materials nor workmanship by reason that it requires adaptation in order to conform 
to national or local technical or safety standards in force in any country other than the one for which the product was originally 
designed and manufactured.
5.  This warranty covers none of the following:
a)  Periodic check ups, maintenance and repair or replacement of parts due to normal wear and tear.
b)  Cost relating to transport, removal or installation of the product.
c)  Misuse, including the failure to use this product for its normal purposes or incorrect installation.
d)  Damage caused by Lightning, Water, Fire, Acts of God, War, Public Disturbances, incorrect mains voltage, improper ventilation 
or any other cause beyond the control of Samsung.
e)  Spillage of food or liquid or use of any other hazardous substances, which may effect the product.
f)  Performance due to differences in broadcasting method between countries
6.  This warranty is valid for any person who legally acquired possession of the product during the warranty period.
7.  The consumers statutory rights in any applicable national legislation whether against the retailer arising from the purchase contract 
or otherwise are not affected by this warranty. Unless there is national legislation to the contrary, the rights under this warranty are 
the consumers sole rights and Samsung, its subsidiaries and distributors shall not be liable for indirect or consequential loss or any 
damage to records, compact discs, videos or audio taper or any other related equipment or material.
8.  Some products may differ from these guidelines. Please check with your dealer or the local Samsung web-site. This page is intentionally 
left blank. This page is intentionally 
left blank. This page is intentionally 
left blank. -01
Contact SAMSUNG WORLD WIDE
If you have any questions or comments relating to Samsung products, please contact the SAMSUNG customer care centre.
Country Customer Care Centre  Web Site
EIRE 0818 717100 www.samsung.com/ie/support
UK 0330 SAMSUNG (7267864) www.samsung.com/uk/support
© 2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.