THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION THAT IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. 
No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including but not 
limited to photocopying, recording, information retrieval systems, or computer network without the written permission of Sonos, Inc. 
Sonos and all other Sonos product names and slogans are trademarks or registered trademarks of Sonos, Inc. Sonos Reg. U.S. Pat. & 
Tm. Off. 
Sonos products may be protected by one or more patents. Our patent-to-product information can be found here: 
sonos.com/legal/patents
iPhone®, iPod®, iPad®, Airplay®, iTunes®, OS X® and Apple Music™ are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other 
countries.
Windows® is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other countries.
Android™ is a trademark of Google, Inc. 
Amazon, Kindle, Kindle Fire, the Amazon Kindle logo and the Kindle Fire logo are trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates.
Sonos uses MSNTP software, which was developed by N.M. Maclaren at the University of Cambridge. 
© Copyright, N.M. Maclaren, 1996, 1997, 2000; © Copyright, University of Cambridge, 1996, 1997, 2000.
All other products and services mentioned may be trademarks or service marks of their respective owners.
May 2016
©2004-2016 by Sonos, Inc. All rights reserved. Sonos PLAY:1
The PLAY:1® is the newest, most compact Sonos wireless speaker that lets you use any Sonos controller to 
control and enjoy all the music you want all over your home (see The Sonos App for more information). 
• Two custom-designed drivers, 3.5 in / 9 cm mid-woofer and tweeter, each with a dedicated amplifier.
• Play/Pause functionality remembers the last thing you were listening to. You can even skip to the next 
track with a double press.
• Pair two PLAY:1s for amazing stereo sound or use two PLAY:1s as rear speakers for your Sonos 
PLAYBAR® home theater system.
• Works seamlessly with the complete range of Sonos products.
New to Sonos?
It takes just a few steps to get your Sonos system up and running—simply follow the setup instructions 
packaged with your PLAY:1. Once you’ve got it set up, you can add additional Sonos products any time.
Adding to an existing Sonos system?
Sonos can be easily expanded room by room. If you are adding a PLAY:1 to an existing Sonos system, see 
Adding to an Existing Sonos System for more information. 
Your Home Network
To access Internet music services, Internet radio, and any digital music stored on your computer or Network-
Attached Storage (NAS) device, your home network must meet the following requirements: 2 Product Guide
Home network requirements
Note: Your network must have a high-speed Internet connection, as the Sonos 
system is designed to provide you with free, online software updates. Your Sonos 
system must be registered to receive these updates so be sure to register during 
the setup process. We do not share your e-mail address with other companies.
• High-speed DSL/Cable modem, or fiber-to-the-home broadband connection for proper playback of 
Internet-based music services. (If your Internet service provider only offers Satellite Internet access, you 
may experience playback issues due to fluctuating download rates.)
• If your modem is not a modem/router combination and you want to take advantage of Sonos' automatic 
online updates, or stream music from an Internet-based music service, you must install a router in your 
home network. If you do not have a router, purchase and install one before proceeding. If you are going 
to use the Sonos app on an Android™ or iOS device, or you are setting up Sonos wirelessly, you will need 
a wireless router. 
Note: Sonos communicates over a 2.4GHz home network supporting 802.11  
b/g/n wireless technology. 5GHz networks are not supported in a completely 
wireless Sonos setup.
• Connect a Sonos BRIDGE, BOOST™ or player to your router if: 
• You have a larger home where the WiFi performance isn’t reliable and you want to strengthen the 
wireless performance of your Sonos system.
• Your WiFi network is already in high demand with streaming video and web surfing and you want to 
create a separate wireless network exclusively for your Sonos speakers.
• Your home network is 5GHz only (not switchable to 2.4GHz).
• For best results, you should connect the computer or NAS drive that contains your personal music library 
collection to your home network router using an Ethernet cable. 
The Sonos App
You can use the free Sonos app with any compatible device, including:
• Sonos app (Android)—Android 2.2 and higher; certain features require later versions. (Standard wireless 
 
setup is only supported on Android 2.3 or 4.0 and higher.)
Touch the Play Store or Market button on your Android device to download the free Sonos app from 
Google Play.
• Sonos app (iOS)—iPhone, iPad and iPod touch running iOS 7.0 or later; certain features may require 
 
later versions.
Touch the App Store button on your iPhone, iPod touch or iPad to download the free Sonos app, or 
download the application from iTunes®. (If you download from iTunes, you will need to sync before you 
see the Sonos logo display on your device.)
• Sonos app (PC)—Windows® XP SP3 and higher; certain features require later versions. (Standard 
 
wireless setup is only supported on Windows 7 and higher.) 
Download from our website at www.sonos.com/support/downloads.  Sonos PLAY:1 3
 
• Sonos app (Mac)—Macintosh® OS X 10.7 or later
Download from our website at www.sonos.com/support/downloads. 
Note: Sonos CONTROL has been discontinued, but it’s compatible with your new 
Sonos product.
PLAY:1 Top / Back
On/Off Your Sonos system is designed to be always on; the system uses 
minimal electricity whenever it is not playing music. To quickly stop 
streaming audio in all rooms, select Pause All from the Rooms menu. 
To stop streaming audio in one room, press the Play/Pause button on 
the player.
Play/Pause button Toggles between playing and pausing the audio in this room (defaults to 
restarting the same music source when pressed unless a different 
source is selected).
• Press once to start or stop streaming audio
• Press twice to skip to the next track (if applicable to the selected 
music source)
Status indicator  Indicates the current status. During normal operation the white light is 
dimly lit. If desired, you can turn off the white light from Room Settings. 
See Player Status Indicators for a complete list of status indications. 4 Product Guide
Volume up (+)   Press these buttons to adjust the volume up and down. 
Volume down (-)
Threaded mounting hole The PLAY:1 has an integrated mounting hole on the back of the unit so 
1/4 inch /  it can be wall-mounted if desired (mounting bracket not included.) See 
20-thread Wall Mounting for more information. 
Ethernet port You can use an Ethernet cable (supplied) to connect the PLAY:1 to a 
router, computer, or additional network device such as a network-
attached storage (NAS) device.
AC power (mains) input   Use only the supplied power cord to connect to a power outlet (using a 
(100 - 240 VAC, 50/60 Hz) third-party power cord will void your warranty).  
Insert the power cord firmly into the PLAY:1 until it is flush with the 
bottom of the unit. 
Selecting a Location
You can locate a Sonos PLAY:1 just about anywhere. For maximum enjoyment, we have a few guidelines:
• The PLAY:1 is designed to work well even when placed next to a wall or other surface. For optimum 
performance, maintaining more than 1 inch (2.5 cm) clearance around the back of the unit is 
recommended.
• Care should be taken if placing the PLAY:1 close to an older CRT (cathode ray tube) television. If you 
notice any discoloration or distortion of your picture quality, simply move the PLAY:1 further from the 
television.
• The PLAY:1 is humidity-resistant so you can use it in the bathroom; however it is not water-resistant so 
don’t position it near water or leave it outside during a rain storm.
Wall Mounting
The Sonos PLAY:1 has a standard 1/4”-20 threaded mounting socket. If desired, you can easily wall mount 
your PLAY:1 using a suitable mounting bracket (not included). Simply choose a location that’s close to an 
electrical outlet (power cord length is 2m), taking care to avoid heat, steam, dripping water or hidden wiring, 
and follow the instructions included with the wall mount kit. You can hang it right side up (control buttons on 
top) or upside down (control buttons on the bottom).
Note: Be sure the wall mount bracket you purchase will support at least 8lbs. (3.6 
kgs) and has a 1/4”-20 threaded post.
Adding to an Existing Sonos System
Once you’ve got your Sonos music system set up, you can easily add more Sonos products any time (up to 
32). 
1. Select a location for your PLAY:1 (see Selecting a Location above for optimal placement guidelines.) Sonos PLAY:1 5
2. Attach the power cord to the PLAY:1 and apply power. Be sure to push the power cord firmly into the 
bottom of the PLAY:1 until it is flush with the bottom of the unit.
Note: If you want to make a wired connection, connect a standard Ethernet cable 
from your router or another Sonos product (or a live network wall plate if you have 
built-in wiring) to an Ethernet port on the back of the PLAY:1.
3. Choose one of the following options:
• Using a handheld Sonos controller: Select Add a Player or SUB from the Settings menu and follow the 
on-screen prompts to add this product to your Sonos system.
• Using the Sonos app for Mac or PC: Select Add a Player or SUB from the Manage menu and follow the 
prompts to add this product to your Sonos system.
Thick walls, 2.4 GHz cordless telephones, or the presence of other wireless devices can interfere with or block 
the wireless network signals from your Sonos system. If you experience difficulty after positioning a Sonos 
product, try one or more of the following resolutions—relocate the Sonos product; change the wireless 
channel your music system is operating on; connect a Sonos product to your router if your setup is currently 
wireless. 
Tune Your Room with Trueplay
™
While you can locate Sonos speakers just about anywhere, the size and shape of your room and the objects in 
it can distort your speaker’s sound. To ensure a speaker sounds right no matter where you place it, Sonos 
speakers include Trueplay. If you have an iPhone (4S or later), iPad, or iPod Touch running iOS7 or later, you 
can use Trueplay tuning to make every Sonos speaker sound right for the room and true to the music.
Sonos uses your iOS device’s microphone to measure acoustic distortion in the room and then Trueplay 
adapts your Sonos speaker's sound for its position in the room.
1. Select Settings -> Room Settings.
2. Select the room your speaker is located in.
3. Select Trueplay Tuning and follow the on-screen prompts.
Note: Trueplay tuning is not available if VoiceOver is enabled on your iOS device. If 
you want to tune your speakers, first turn VoiceOver off on your device and then 
select Settings -> Room Settings from the Sonos app.
Creating a Stereo Pair
The stereo pair setting allows you to group two PLAY:1s, PLAY:3s or PLAY:5®s in the same room to create a 
wider stereo experience. In this configuration, one unit serves as the left channel and the other serves as the 
right channel. You cannot create a mixed stereo pair—the Sonos products in the stereo pair must be the 
same. 6 Product Guide
Optimum placement information
• When creating a stereo pair, it is best to place the two Sonos products 8 to 10 feet away from each other.
• Your favorite listening position should be 8 to 12 feet from the paired Sonos products. Less distance will 
increase bass, more distance will improve stereo imaging.
Note: The stereo pair setting is for use with PLAY:1, PLAY:3 and PLAY:5 units 
only. You cannot create a mixed stereo pair—both Sonos products in the stereo 
pair must be the same. 
Using the Sonos app on a mobile device
1. Select Settings -> Room Settings.
2. Select a PLAY:1 to pair.
3. Select Create Stereo Pair, and follow the prompts to set up the stereo pair.
To separate a stereo pair:
1. Select Settings -> Room Settings.
2. Select the stereo pair you wish to separate (the stereo pair appears with L + R in the room name.)
3. Select Separate Stereo Pair.
Using the Sonos app on a Mac or PC
1. Choose one of the following:
• Using your PC, select Settings from the Manage menu.
• Using your Mac, select Preferences -> Room Settings from the Sonos menu. 
2. Select a PLAY:1 you want to pair from the Room Settings for drop-down list. 
3. Click Create Stereo Pair and follow the prompts to set up the stereo pair. Sonos PLAY:1 7
To separate a stereo pair:
1. Choose one of the following:
• Using your PC, select Settings from the Manage menu.
• Using your Mac, select Preferences -> Room Settings from the Sonos menu. 
2. Select the Sonos stereo pair you wish to separate from the Room Settings for drop-down (the stereo pair 
will appear with L + R in the room name). 
3. On the Basic tab, click Separate Stereo Pair.
Adding Surround Speakers 
You can easily pair two PLAY:1, PLAY:3 or PLAY:5 (gen2) speakers with a PLAYBAR to function as left and 
right surround channels in your Sonos surround sound experience. You can either configure surround 
speakers during the setup process, or follow the steps below to add them.
• Make sure the Sonos products are the same—you cannot combine a PLAY:1 and a PLAY:3 to function 
as surround speakers.
• Be sure to follow these instructions to set up your surround speakers. Do not create a room group or 
stereo pair as these will not achieve the left and right surround channel functionality. 
Using the Sonos app on a mobile device
1. From the Settings menu, select Room Settings.
2. Select the room the PLAYBAR is located in. 
3. Select Add Surround Speakers.
4. Follow the prompts to add first a left and then a right surround speaker.
Removing surround speakers
1. From the Settings menu, select Room Settings.
2. Select the room the surround speakers are associated with. The room name appears as Room (+LS+RS) 
on the Room Settings menu.  8 Product Guide
3. Select Remove Surround Speakers.
4. Select Next to drop the surround sound speakers from your surround system. If these were newly 
purchased PLAY:1s they will appear as Unused on the Rooms menu. If these PLAY:1s existed in your 
household previously, they revert back to their previous state. 
You can now move them to another room for individual use.
Changing the surround settings
The default setting is determined by the calibration process. If you wish to make a change, you can follow the 
steps below.
1. From the Settings menu, select Room Settings.
2. Select the room the PLAYBAR and surround speakers are located in. It appears as Room (+LS+RS) on the 
Room Settings menu. 
3. Select Advanced Audio -> Surround Settings. 
4. Choose one of the following:
• Surrounds: Choose On or Off to turn the sound from the surround speakers on and off.
• TV Level: Drag your finger across the slider to increase or decrease the volume of the surround speakers 
for playing TV audio.
• Music Level: Drag your finger across the slider to increase or decrease the volume of the surround 
speakers for playing music.
• Music Playback: Choose Ambient (default; subtle, ambient sound) or Full (enables louder, full range 
sound). This setting applies only to music playback, not TV audio.
Using the Sonos app on a Mac or PC
1. Select Manage -> Settings (PC) or Sonos -> Preferences (Mac).
2. Select Room Settings if it is not already highlighted on the left.
3. From the Basic tab, select Add Surround Speakers.
4. Follow the prompts to add first a left and then a right surround speaker.
Removing surround speakers
1. Select Manage -> Settings (PC) or Sonos -> Preferences (Mac).
2. Select Room Settings if it is not already highlighted on the left.
3. Choose the room the PLAYBAR is located in from the Room Settings for drop-down list. The room name 
appears as Room (+LS+RS). 
4. From the Basic tab, click Remove Surround Speakers. If these were newly purchased PLAY:1s, they will 
appear as Unused in the Rooms pane. If these PLAY:1s existed in your household previously, they revert 
back to their previous state. 
Changing the surround settings
The default setting is determined by the calibration process. If you wish to make a change, you can follow the 
steps below.
1. Select Manage -> Settings (PC) or Sonos -> Preferences (Mac).
2. Select Room Settings if it is not already highlighted on the left.
3. Choose the room the PLAYBAR and surround speakers are located in from the Room Settings for drop-
down. Sonos PLAY:1 9
4. Select the Surrounds tab.
5. Choose one of the following:
• Surrounds: Check to turn the sound from the surround speakers on; uncheck to turn it off.
• TV Level Adjustment: Click and drag the slider to increase or decrease the volume of the surround 
speakers for playing TV audio.
• Music Level Adjustment: Click and drag the slider to increase or decrease the volume of the surround 
speakers for playing music.
• Music Playback: Choose Ambient (default; subtle, ambient sound) or Full (enables louder, full range 
sound). This setting applies only to music playback, not TV audio.
Playing Music
Make a selection from the Sonos music menu on your mobile device or from the MUSIC pane on a Mac or 
PC.
Radio
Sonos includes a radio guide that provides immediate access to thousands of free Internet radio stations and 
broadcast programs. You can easily find radio stations from all over the world—music, news, and variety 
programming, including archived shows and podcasts. 
To select a radio station, simply select Radio and choose a station.
Music services
A music service is an online music store or online service that sells audio on a per-song, per audiobook, or 
subscription basis. Sonos is compatible with several music services - you can visit our website at 
www.sonos.com/music for the latest list. (Some music services may not be available in your country. Please 
check the individual music service’s website for more information.) 
If you are currently subscribed to a music service that’s compatible with Sonos, simply add your music service 
user name and password information to Sonos as needed and you’ll have instant access to the music service 
from your Sonos system. 
1. To add a music service, touch Add Music Services from the Sonos music menu.
2. Select the Sonos-compatible music service you would like to add. 
3. Select Add Account, and then follow the on-screen prompts. Your login and password will be verified 
with the music service. As soon as your credentials have been verified, the music service displays on the 
Sonos music menu.
Free music service trials are available in some countries. (Please check the individual music service’s website 
for more information.) If there is a music service trial visible on the Music Services menu, simply touch it to 
select. Touch Add Account -> I’m new to [music service], and then follow the prompts to activate the music 
trial. After the trial period is up, you will need to subscribe to the music service to keep the music playing. 10 Product Guide
Local music library
The Sonos system can play music from any computer or network-attached storage (NAS) device on your 
home network where you have shared music folders. During the setup process, you are guided through the 
process of accessing your local music library (such as your iTunes library). Over time, you may wish to add or 
remove folders from this list.
Note: We recommend using the Sonos app for Mac or PC to add shared folders. 
For more information, please visit our website at http://faq.sonos.com/manage.
To make changes to your local music library, select the Settings menu from a handheld Sonos controller and 
then choose one of the following options:
• To add a new music folder, select Manage Music Library-> Music Library Setup -> Add New Share.
• To remove a music folders, select Manage Music Library -> Music Library Setup. Touch the share you 
wish to remove and then select Remove. 
The Sonos system indexes your local music so you can view your music collection by categories (such as 
artists, albums, composers, genres, or tracks.) If you add new music, simply update your music index to add 
this music to your Sonos music library.
• To update your music library, select Manage Music Library -> Update Music Index Now. If you’d like 
your music library to update automatically each day, select Schedule Music Index Updates and then 
select an update time.
Wireless iTunes playback
You can select and play music and podcasts stored on any iOS device that’s on the same wireless network as 
your Sonos products. Playback is perfectly synchronized, in any or every room of your home. Simply choose 
On this iPad, On this iPhone, or On this iPod touch from the Sonos app on your iOS device to make audio 
selections.
Wireless playback from Android devices
You can select and play music stored on any Android device that’s on the same wireless network as your 
Sonos products. Playback is perfectly synchronized, in any or every room of your home. Simply choose On 
this Mobile Device from the Sonos app on your Android smartphone or tablet to make audio selections.
Google Play Music (Android devices)
You can play music to your Sonos system directly from the Google Play Music app on any Android device. 
This feature is available for both Standard and All Access Google Play Music customers. 
To play music directly from the Google Play Music app to your Sonos system, you must have both the Google 
Play Music app and the Sonos app installed on your mobile device. 
Simply open the Google Play Music app and connect to a Sonos room or room group to start the music.  Sonos PLAY:1 11
Equalization Settings
The Sonos PLAY:1 ships with the equalization settings preset to provide the optimal playback experience. If 
desired, you can change the sound settings (bass, treble, balance, or loudness) to suit your personal 
preferences.
Note: Balance is only adjustable when the PLAY:1 is used in a stereo pair.
1. Using a handheld controller, select Settings -> Room Settings.
2. Touch to select a room.
3. Select Music Equalization, and then drag your finger across the sliders to make adjustments.
4. To change the Loudness setting, touch On or Off. (The loudness setting boosts certain frequencies, 
including bass, to improve the sound at low volume.)
Player Status Indicators
Indicator Lights Player State Sonos Product Additional Information
Flashing white Powering up BRIDGE, BOOST, 
CONNECT, SUB, 
CONNECT:AMP, 
DOCK, PLAY:1, 
PLAY:3, PLAY:5, 
PLAYBAR
Solid white Powered up and associated  BRIDGE, BOOST,  If desired, when the product is in normal 
(dimly lit) with a Sonos system (normal  CONNECT, SUB,  operation, you can turn the white status 
operation) CONNECT:AMP,  indicator light on or off from Room 
DOCK, PLAY:1,  Settings. (The SUB and any players set to 
PLAY:3, PLAY:5,  surround reflect the same setting as the 
PLAYBAR player they are paired with.)
Solid white Touch control(s) active PLAY:5 (gen2)  Brightens when touch controls are 
(brightly lit) activated and remains at full brightness for 
the duration of contact.
Flashing green Powered up, not yet  BRIDGE, BOOST,  For a SUB, this may indicate the SUB is 
associated with a Sonos  CONNECT, SUB,  not yet paired with a player.
system CONNECT:AMP, 
Or, DOCK, PLAY:1, 
WAC (wireless access  PLAY:3, PLAY:5, 
configuration) join ready PLAYBAR
 
Slowly flashing  Surround audio is off or  PLAY:1, PLAY:3,  Applicable for player configured as a 
green SUB audio is off PLAY:5 (gen2),  PLAYBAR surround speaker, or for a SUB 
SUB paired with a PLAYBAR 12 Product Guide
Indicator Lights Player State Sonos Product Additional Information
Solid green Volume set to zero or muted CONNECT, 
CONNECT:AMP, 
PLAY:1, PLAY:3, 
PLAY:5, 
PLAYBAR
Flashing orange During SonosNet setup, this  BRIDGE, BOOST, 
occurs after a button press  CONNECT, SUB, 
while the product is  CONNECT:AMP, 
searching for a household to  DOCK, PLAY:1, 
join. PLAY:3, PLAY:5, 
PLAYBAR
Rapidly flashing  Playback / Next Track failed CONNECT, Indicates either playback or next track 
orange CONNECT:AMP,  was not possible
PLAY:1, PLAY:3, 
PLAY:5, 
PLAYBAR
Solid orange During wireless setup, this  CONNECT, SUB,  If the orange light is on AND the player’s 
occurs while the Sonos open  CONNECT:AMP,  volume level automatically reduces, this 
access point is temporarily  PLAY:1, PLAY:3,  indicates the player is in warning mode.
active.   PLAY:5,  • Press the Pause button to stop the 
If you are not setting up your  PLAYBAR audio
Sonos system, this may  • For Sonos products with a vent 
indicate warning mode. opening (SUB, CONNECT:AMP), 
check to make sure it’s not blocked
• Check the room temperature to make 
sure it’s less than 104°F/ 40° C
• If the player is in direct sunlight, 
provide shade
• Allow the player to cool for several 
minutes and then press Play to restart 
the audio
• If the problem does not resolve, 
please contact Customer Support
Important Safety Information
Warning: Do not open Sonos products as there is a risk of electric shock. Under 
no circumstances should Sonos products be repaired by anyone other than an 
authorized Sonos repair center, as this will invalidate the warranty. Please contact 
Sonos Customer Support for more information. 
1. Read these instructions.
2. Keep these instructions. Sonos PLAY:1 13
3. Heed all warnings.
4. Follow all instructions.
5. Do not use this apparatus near water. 
6. Clean only with dry soft cloth. Household cleaners or solvents can damage the finish on your Sonos 
products. 
7. Do not install near any heat sources such as radiators, heat registers, stoves, or other apparatus that 
produce heat.
8. Protect the power cable from being walked on or pinched, particularly at plugs, convenience receptacles, 
and the point where they exit from the apparatus. 
9. Only use attachments/accessories specified by the manufacturer.
10. Unplug this apparatus during lightning storms or when unused for long periods of time.
11. Refer all servicing to Sonos qualified service personnel. Servicing is required when the apparatus has been 
damaged in any way, such as power-supply cable or plug is damaged, liquid has been spilled or objects 
have fallen into the apparatus, the apparatus has been exposed to rain or moisture, does not operate 
normally, or has been dropped. 
12. The AC Mains plug should be readily available to disconnect the equipment.
13. Warning: To reduce the risk of fire or electric shock, do not expose this apparatus to rain or moisture. 
14. Do not expose apparatus to dripping or splashing and do not place objects filled with liquids, such as 
vases, on the apparatus.
15. If wall mounting your Sonos products, make sure to use proper third-party wall mounting hardware and 
follow all their instructions.
Specifications
 
Feature Description
Audio
Amplifier Two Class-D digital amplifiers
Tweeter One tweeter creates a crisp and accurate high frequency response
Mid-Woofer One mid-woofer ensures the faithful reproduction of mid-range frequencies 
crucial for accurate playback of vocals and instruments, as well as delivery 
of deep, rich bass 
Stereo Pair setting Turns two PLAY:1s into separate left and right channel speakers
5.1 Home Theater Add two PLAY:1 speakers to PLAYBAR and SUB for a true surround sound 
experience 
Music 14 Product Guide
Feature Description
Audio Formats Supported   Support for compressed MP3, AAC (without DRM), WMA without DRM 
(including purchased Windows Media downloads), AAC (MPEG4), AAC+, 
Ogg Vorbis, Apple Lossless, Flac (lossless) music files, as well as 
uncompressed WAV and AIFF files.
Native support for 44.1kHz sample rates. Additional support for 48kHz, 
32kHz, 24kHz, 22kHz, 16kHz, 11kHz, and 8kHz sample rates. MP3 supports 
all rates except 11kHz and 8kHz.
Note: Apple “Fairplay”, WMA DRM and WMA Lossless formats not currently 
supported. Previously purchased Apple “Fairplay” DRM-protected songs 
may be upgraded. 
Music Services Supported Sonos works seamlessly with most music services, including Apple 
Music™, Deezer, Google Play Music, Pandora, Spotify and Radio by TuneIn, 
as well as downloads from any service offering DRM-free tracks. Service 
 
availability varies by region. For a complete list, see 
http://www.sonos.com/music. 
Operating Systems (for stored files) Windows® XP SP3 and higher; Macintosh OS X 10.6 or later; NAS 
(network-attached storage) devices supporting CIFS
Internet Radio Supported Streaming MP3, HLS/AAC, WMA
Album Art Supported JPEG, PNG, BMP, GIF
Playlists Supported Rhapsody, iTunes, WinAmp, and Windows Media Player (.m3u, .pls, .wpl)
Networking*
Wireless Connectivity Connects to your home WiFi network with any 802.11 b/g/n, 3x3 MIMO, 
dual-band (2.4GHz/5GHz) router. 
SonosNet™ Extender Functions to extend and enhance the power of SonosNet, a secure AES 
encrypted, peer-to-peer wireless mesh network dedicated exclusively for 
your Sonos system to reduce WiFi interference.
Ethernet Port One 10/100Mbps Ethernet port
SonosNet Extender Functions to extend and enhance the power of SonosNet 2.0
General
Power Supply 100 - 240 VAC, 50/60 Hz, auto-switchable
Top Panel Buttons Volume and Play/Pause.  
Press Play/Pause button once to start or stop the music; twice to skip to the 
next track
Top Panel LED Indicates PLAY:1 status
Dimensions (H x W x D) 6.36 x 4.69 x 4.69 (in) / 161.45 x 119.7 X 119.7 (mm)
Threaded mount  Standard 1/4”-20 threaded mounting socket
Weight 4.08 lb (1.85 kg) Sonos PLAY:1 15
Feature Description
Operating Temperature 32º to 104º F (0º to 40º C)
Storage Temperature 4º to 158º F (-20º to 70º C)
Humidity Resistant Designed to withstand high-humidity, such as in a bathroom with a running 
shower. (The PLAY:1 is not waterproof or water-resistant.) 
Product Finish White with light metallic grille; black with graphite grille
* Specifications subject to change without notice.
Need More Help?
• Visit our Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) pages at www.sonos.com/support.
• Ask us a question at http://www.sonos.com/emailsupport.
Submit Feedback
We’d love to hear from you! Send us feedback on our guides at: docfeedback@sonos.com